ONLY A WOMAN!



CHAPTER I.



THE DEAD ALIVE.



I WOULD not insult my readers by supposing they allowed themselves to be so easily deceived, as Herbert had been, as to the loss of Jessie. I had introduced her to them as my heroine, and it would be quite unconventional to kill her off in the early part of the story. Some twenty years back, had I been writing a novel, I should have, then, inserted a species of "advice to my readers,"





warning them not to accept Jessie's death as a fait accompli, but now-a-days there is no necessity for such explanations; the generous British public by reading the first chapter and last of a novel can always, by long practice, arrive at the plot, and it is useless attempting to disguise it from them. It may be that, before I have finished this sad, eventful history, I shall succeed in taking them in a little, but the main incidents are on the surface.

It has been objected to one of the greatest of living novelists that he has recently fallen into the habit of diverting his reader's attention to characters who are somehow like literary cul de sacs, and drag the story off down a side-lane, from which it has to return unprofitably. Persons who allege this, refer for instance to the episode of Miss Wade and Tattycoram in "Little Dorrit" as not at all belonging to the story, and having been dragged in to fill up a certain number of pages. Be this as it may, who am I that I should express an





opinion on the subject? my only care should be to avoid falling into such an error (if it be one) myself, and covering my canvas with too many figures, some of which are of no service to the plot.

I have had two reasons, then, I may offer in excuse for keeping Jessie, although my heroine, so long in the back-ground. In the first place, I was anxious to follow the development of Herbert's character, and show how he gradually became the bad, purposeless man he now is, the merest sport of women, and led astray from all considerations of duty by the sight of a pretty face-and, secondly, I was anxious to pay due regard to dramatic unity, by bringing up my story without interruption to the time when my heroine really made her re-appearance in England.

Her adventures during the last few years will form a species of episode, which any of my readers so disposed may skip without in any way diminishing the possible interest of the





narrative.



Still, they had better read it, as it

will show certain developments of Jessie's character, without which the result I wish to arrive at could not be evolved.

When we took leave of Jessie on board the Ramchunder, that goodly vessel was bowling along nobly to her destination, and everything promised that Sidney would have been reached by the appointed time. And so it doubtless would have been, but for one little accident, and that was one I have often wondered has not occurred before or since.

So atrocious was the barbarity of the ship's officers to the passengers, such Jedburgh law did they inflict by staving men's heads in with crowbars, stopping them of their provisions, and, worst of all, insulting their wives and daughters by coarse proposals, that the emigrants plucked up an unwonted spirit, and determined on giving them a severe punishment.

Had they cast them into irons and handed them over to the civil authorities on arriving at





Australia, it would have been but fair: as, however, several shots had been fired and more than one passenger killed, the ringleaders of the mutiny determined on taking signal revenge, and, for the time, were careless of the consequences. In a word, they followed the example of the crew of the "Bounty," and sent all the officers of the ship and the most obnoxious seamen adrift in a boat, with provisions calculated to last them till they reached land, and then set out on their voyage again.

When the time for reflection arrived, as is too often the case, the emigrants discovered they had acted precipitately, and the want of authority was even worse than the tyranny against which they had so energetically protested. There was no one able to steer the ship properly, and, besides, a very unpleasant laxity of discipline was perceptible. The ringleaders had no particular desire to make port, for they shrewdly suspected that they would be severely punished for their amiable little





freak, and the discovery of several puncheons of Martel's best brandy in the hold materially enhanced the general confusion on board.

Under these circumstances several of the leading passengers collected together and formed a species of deliberative committee, in the hope of restoring some degree of order, but they only produced a worse state of things than the first. On board an emigrant ship there are always plenty of troublesome elements, not particularly careful as to their conduct, and the prospect of a handsome booty readily induced them to join the disaffected portion.

On the other hand, all those who had anything to lose were equally eager that the ship should reach her destination, which the ringleaders declined. Before long the passengers were divided into two hostile camps, and, worse still, the vessel seemed to be left almost entirely to the mercy of the winds.





Undoubtedly, a bloody collision would have





taken place before long, for the mutineers aided by the ship's crew were determined on carrying out their proposition by force, but the winds and the waters saved such a dispute. One dark night, when the greater portion of the steerage passengers were more or less intoxicated and giving way to their noisy mirth, the vessel received a blow which caused it to quiver from stem to stern. The Ramchunder, tired of the ruffianly set on board, had run head foremost on a reef.

Frightful was the confusion, more especially when she slowly but gradually slid off again : and the water came swashing into the steerage, proving how terrible a blow she had received. The change from the late noisy revelry was striking where the song and the coarse jest had lately pealed through the air were now heard the wail and lamentation of women and children, all madly struggling to reach the upper deck, and choking up the companion in their frantic efforts. Then came a rush of



:





strong men, mercilessly trampling under foot the weak, and selfishly seeking salvation-then rose the sickening imprecation, then was heard the fierce blow returned with equal fierceness --and the combat became general; while amid the pauses could be heard the melancholy swash-swash of the water as it rose gradually in the cabin.

Still, the combat was continued: the revolver flashed, the knife glittered in the moon rays that shone down so peacefully on the awful scene---and yet, the water rose. At length was heard a terrible explosion, drowning the shrieks and yells of the combatants-the deck of the Ramchunder had blown up, and she gradually settled down in the waters, bearing with her the maddened combatants still clutched in the frenzied embrace of death. !

Jessie had been saved from this awful fate by an accident: her gentle manners and sad story had excited the sympathies of the few cabin passengers, and, during the last stormy





times, she had been invited with her boy to live in the saloon, which the mutineers instinctively avoided, as even they had grace enough not to lay their atrocities bare before persons holding a superior position to themselves. When the vessel struck, by an instinct of selfpreservation both the sailors and the cabin passengers began lowering the quarter-deck boats on either side, and stowing away in them such provisions as were immediately accessible, although they did not pay much attention to this, as they assumed themselves close to an island, and in those southern latitudes there are hardly any islands so barren as not to afford support to the shipwrecked.

With pardonable selfishness they gave no intimation to the rest of the passengers of what they were about, but so soon as the two boats were ready, they descended into them. and pushed off as rapidly as they could, for fear of being encumbered by too many travellers equally anxious to save their lives; and





self-preservation, as we all know, is the first law of nature-especially in a shipwreck. Had the captain and mates been still on board, either the wreck would not have occurred, or there would have been time to save all-as it was, the crime recoiled upon the perpetrators.

At first the sailors in the jolly-boat attached a line to the other boat, in order to help its progress, but at the moment the Ramchunder sunk, they were so alarmed lest the swimmers should swamp them, that they cast off the tow-line, and pulled hurriedly in the direction of land, leaving Jessie and her boy, two other ladies and four gentlemen, behind in the boat. The latter, to their credit, remained stationary in the hope of rendering some assistance to the unhappy passengers on board the vessel, but it was all in vain: those who did not go down in her were soon disposed of by the sharks. Now and then a shrill cry might be heard booming along the water, but even these





sounds soon died away, and the wretched beings were left-alone on the ocean!

After a hurried consultation among the gentlemen, they decided on remaining where they were for the night, in the hope of seeing land as soon as day broke, for they felt confident the vessel had run an island down. It was a warm tropical evening, and there was no other inconvenience attaching to the stay than the uncertainty as to where they were. Unfortunately, though, not one of the gentlemen understood anything about steering a boat, and, hence, when the wind rose slightly, about two in the morning, and they began drifting slowly away, no one suspected how fast wind and tide were carrying them from their tropical Patmos.

When day broke, great were their surprise and alarm to find no land in sight. In vain did they search the horizon-in vain did they steer wildly in every direction-no land came in sight. They had no compass on board, and





the prospect began to grow very hopeless. But it grew even worse when they turned to inspect their stock of provisions: and horror was depicted on every face, when they discovered that by some fatal oversight they had not a drop of water in the boat. There were six bottles of brandy, a portion of a cooked. ham, some biscuits and cheese, and that was all!

It is wonderful how soon people give way. to despondency when placed in a novel situation. The four gentlemen, to whose care these helpless women and an infant were intrusted, were themselves as helpless as their charges, and it was not till Jessie, who had already undergone so much by her separation from her Herbert that she feared nothing. now, began to consult resolutely with them as to their future procedure, that they realized how truly helpless they were.

All this while the sun was rising slowly but inexorably on the horizon, and gave them a foretaste of what they would endure during





the day from thirst. It was evident that the first thing to be done was to leave their present station, and steer somewhere. But there was the difficulty; in which direction lay land—all around was water--where did the haven lie? and here Jessie's strong common sense came to their aid.



cr



Stay," she said, pointing to a recently uprooted tree, that floated idly past at a short distance from them, "that appears to have come fresh from land, and the current must set from that quarter. Suppose, then, we steer due east, as that tree has certainly come?'

"The girl's right, by Heavens!" one of the gentlemen said, and clutching at the oars they pulled furiously in that direction, Jessie helping them to the best of her ability by keeping the helm straight.

But, alas! however much they might pull the less did land come in sight, and before long their strength failed them, and their





blistered hands warned them of the uselessness of their efforts. But here Jessie became again a practical suggestor: asking two of the ladies for their shawls, she produced a huswife and sewed them clumsily together, thus forming an extempore sail which was fastened to an oar, and the boat bounded merrily over the waters under the freshening impulse. An impromptu awning was formed of other shawls, and, confidence being in some measure restored, they had their first meal.

So passed the day away: gradually they ceased speaking, for the heat and the combined thirst overpowered them, and gladly they hailed the descent of the huge bloodshot orb beneath the horizon.

Little by little the wind shifted and the boat obeyed the direction, without any one noticing it. The gentlemen, worn-out with their exertions, dropped off to sleep one after the other, and the ladies followed their example, and thus they drifted about the livelong night,





till the first beams of the sun fell on their faces



and roused them to their misery.



Suddenly



one of the gentlemen uttered a cry:

"By heavens, Sercombe, look there! I must be dreaming, or that is the very tree from which we started yesterday morning?



r





Nonsense, how can that be? we must have sailed miles from there. However, let us see."



وو



And hastily shipping a couple of oars, they pulled the boat's head round, and soon drew up to the accursed tree.

It was too true: they were enabled to recognise it but too distinctly: there was the same mass of foliage idly heaving and sinking in the waves, the same earth-laden roots bringing it up suddenly every now and then, as it sunk deeper in the water. All their labour, then, was lost the whole day through they had been sailing in a circle. Mutely the unhappy men gazed in each other's faces, until, at length, one of them broke the silence with a fearful execration.



:





"Hush!" said Jessie timidly, "he will hear



you!"



And she pointed to a huge dorsal fin, emerging from the wave at some ten paces from the boat,. and which followed its every movement with the regularity of a sleuth hound. It was the terrible shark, the ocean's hyæna!

A sudden awe fell on all, and thirst seemed forgotten at the sight of this horrible creature, which is the landman's special terror. There it steered after them, ever keeping the same distance, with its blue fin emerging precisely the same height from the water: you might have said it scented the coming death, and would not be baulked of its prey.

Again the sun rose high in the heavensand the thirst grew intense-now could Jessie realize those lines of the poet and their ghastly true imagery:



Water, water everywhere,

But not a drop to drink!"





Not a word was uttered: not a sound was heard save Jessie's boy pining for drink, and the mother's soft, loving voice urging him to be quiet, although herself suffering the agonies of Dives, when he implored Lazarus to give him a drop of water to cool his parched lips. Suddenly, the silence was broken by a ghastly oath from Sercombe, which caused all who heard it to shudder, such an insult did it seem to God's Majesty displayed around them, and he seized a brandy bottle, and, ere he could be prevented, drained it to the dregs.

"Ha, ha!" he yelled, "I can drink at any rate and forget my sorrow.'





Hotter and hotter became the sky, fiercer grew the torture of the thirst, but no relief was at hand. At times, the gentlemen cast wizened greedy glances at Jessie's child, as if they wished to slake their thirst in its heart's blood, and Jessie, instinctively guessing their





meaning, clutched it closer to her breast. Fortunately they were saved a crime, for before night the two ladies died, and—

But I cannot describe the awful scene followed by another even more awful, when Sercombe, under the devilish influence of delirium tremens, leaped madly into the sea, shrieking, "I come, I come!" There was a sudden rush from the depths: the huge jaws were heard to champ: in the bright moonlight a circle of blood could be traced-- Oh God! it is too terrible to describe.

Jessie was in a state of desperation; she had convulsively sucked at a piece of lead ever since she learned the want of water, but her sufferings now overpowered her, and she sunk back in the stern sheets prepared to die! Suddenly the plaintive cry of her boy awoke her to sensibility, and tearing her dress open she held him to her bosom.

Oh miracle of mother's love! that bosom which had dried up its fountains for months,





by the blessing of God now poured forth a stream as reviving as that which accompanied Moses' smiting of the rock. The babe was soon lulled to sleep, and Jessie, feeling convinced by this marvel that her time had not yet come, fell off into a restless slumber.

When she opened her eyes the next morning, what a fearful sight met them. Before her, two gibbering maniacs, in the last pangs of death, yet making futile efforts to rise and vent their fury on each other-behind her, the inexorable shark, not to be baulked of its prey, and every now and then lashing the mirrored surface of the sea, as if in wrath at having to wait so long-and above, the same fireball, pouring down its merciless beams upon her.

It was a day of horror. The two unhappy men died in succession, but Jessie was too far gone to notice it. She had sunk into a lethargic state, and a sort of monomania assailed her that she could only end her sufferings by





leaping out of the boat and serving as a prey to the shark. No escape was possible: her delicate limbs must be crunched in his savage jaws-such was the decree of Heaven. And so strong was the delusion, that she tried several times to raise herself and fly from the world's torture into the cooling waters, but fortunately her strength utterly failed her.

At length, she fell back and all was again as a dream!

You are right, Jessie: your sufferings are over, but not in the way you had anticipated; had you been able to notice anything during the last few hours, you would have seen a cloud no larger than a man's hand rising on the horizon to save you. Gradually it came up and veiled the sun and then, as if proud of its victory, began drenching his beams in one of those tremendous tropical showers, which convert small mountain streams into rivers as if by the magician's touch.



:



Jessie, though, was so far gone that this





down-pour did not at first arouse her; she dreamed that she was wandering with Herbert by the side of a pleasant stream, stooping every now and then to cool her feverish brow, and plucking water-lilies with which to interweave a coronet for his dear head. Suddenly they came upon a waterfall, and Herbert, assuming a stern menacing aspect, threatened to throw her in. She shrieked and tried to fly from him, but it was all in vain; he seized her by the waist, hurled her round his head like a feather, and ugh-she fell right in the centre of the torrent, which seemed to ice her to the marrow.

Languidly she opened her eyes-and the impression of the dream was so vivid that she sought to escape from the waters. But still they poured mercilessly on her head, and the cool fresh plash of the rain as it dashed in her face aroused her. She sprung into a sitting posture, and the whole blessed truth flashed upon her. The heavy rain had beaten down





the frail awning, and the collected moisture was pouring like a torrent on her brow. "Saved! saved!" she shrieked, and fell on her knees, humbly thanking her Creator for His great



mercy.



And then, before she tried to slake her own thirst, she devoted her attention to her boy. She tore the dripping clothes from his back, and exposed him to the blessed rain; eagerly she collected it in her hollowed palm, and held it to his parched lips: gradually he regained sensation and slowly imbibed the liferestoring fluid. At length, he opened his filmy eyes, gazed vacantly around, and then seeing the loving anxious face above him, gently bleated, "Mamma, mamma!

So soon as Jessie had satisfied her own thirst, she looked around. She shuddered as her eyes fell on the corpses swashing in the stagnant water, and turned away from the sickening sight. But, God in Heaven! what





is that on her left hand, in front, around her?





With a frantic cry of exultation she fell back as if dead, and the boat drifted slowly revolving toward the.shore.

The shark, maddened at seeing his prey escape him, leaped furiously after the boat, and tried in vain to gain the interior. The water was too shallow for him to turn on his back, and at length, in his impotent fury, he lashed the waters with his mighty tail, and disappeared from sight.

At this moment the sun shone out again in all its splendour, and the boat was tossed. gently on the pebbly strand.





CHAPTER II.



MADONNA COL BAMBINO.



WHEN Jessie at length opened her eyes again after the terrible series of adventures that had befallen her, she could not realize for the moment what had occurred to her. A dark brown but pleasant face was bending over her, and laving her brow, ever and anon smiling significantly as if to assure her guest that no harm was intended her. A little further on was a group of laughing girls,. evidently delighted with baby, who for his part evinced his satisfaction by repeated crowings and fat chuckles of delight.





Jessie found herself on closer inspection in a large bamboo hut, while through the doorway could be seen the feathery palms idly oscillating in the breeze. The interior of the hut was most pleasing through its simplicity and cleanliness, and the floor was formed of short cut grass overlaid with gaily ornamented mattings. The various articles of household use were elegantly carved out of light fancy woods, while the walls and roof were covered with the well-known tapa cloth. In one corner of the room baskets of ripe fruit were piled up, and in another glistened a bark fire which diffused an exquisite perfume.

Equally fairy-like were the denizens of the abode they consisted of an aged dame seated in the corner near the fire-place, making. a species of cloth by intertwining the fibres of trees or plants, which she accompanied by a low, crooning song-and some dozen bronzecoloured maidens, not overburdened with clothing, but making up for this by wearing





coronals of the most fragrant flowers arranged The scene was



amid their flowing tresses.



altogether most picturesque, and formed such a contrast to past horrors, that Jessie closed her eyes in delight, and fell back with a sigh of satisfaction on her soft bed.

But she was not left there long: the woman who seemed to have taken special charge of her made a signal to the others, and they immediately flocked round Jessie and proceeded to shampoo her. This practice, which



is



very common among the primitive inhabitants of the Samoan group (on one of which islands Jessie now found herself), is a most cooling and refreshing operation, and long ere it was over Jessie was again asleep, and enjoying much needed rest.

The sun was sinking beneath the horizon when my heroine again opened her eyes, and an inward monitor at once advised her how necessary some food would be. But her kind friends had not been idle in the meanwhile,





and a meal was soon served up, such as Jessie had, hitherto, only dreamed of. There were boiled fish, and calabashes filled with sea water to act as sauce: roasted bananas, and, to crown the whole, a sucking pig, stuffed with odoriferous herbs and bound up with plaintain leaves. This was soon cut asunder with sharp stones, and the odour it emitted would have tempted a Mussulman--had he but fasted so long as Jessie. The dessert consisted of pine-apples and cocoa-nuts, and the whole was washed down with a pleasant acidulated liquor of a slightly alcoholic flavour, which did Jessie a great deal of good after her exertions.

The native ladies, however, indulged in a delicacy, one taste of which quite satisfied my heroine's curiosity, for she considered it most insipid, although it is the national food of all the South-Sea islanders. It was the celebrated "poæ," prepared from the root of the Taro. After being carefully cleaned, the root is then





scraped until it becomes a glutinous mass, after which it is partly baked, and is esteemed most pleasant when eaten in a state of acetic fermentation. The ladies handed each other a gourd filled with this preparation, into which each person in succession thrust her finger, and giving it a semicircular sweep brought up a large mouthful of this natural birdlime, which was swallowed with evident marks of satisfaction.

After devouring an immense quantity of this stuff, and pressing Jessie in vain to eat more (for they fancied she must keep pace with them in the eating line) the ladies produced a pipe, which they filled with a species of fragrant kinna-kinnik, from which each took a puff, emitting the smoke through her nostrils and handing the pipe to her next neighbour. Most comical were their looks of amazement when Jessie declined their polite attention.

The next morning, Jessie was roused from her slumbers at an early hour and conducted.





out of the hut with marks of the most profound respect. The scene that met her gaze was exquisite: the hut was surrounded by a dense foliage, and the palm and cocoa trees formed a natural amphitheatre extending down to the beach. But Jessie's attention was soon attracted to the crowd assembled in front of the hut, squatting on their hands, and listening to an aged Chieftain who was holding an impassioned harangue. At the sight of the European woman and her child, however, they all prostrated themselves on their faces before her, and seemed to deprecate her wrath.

Jessie naturally smiled on witnessing these signs of devotion, which were far beyond her comprehension, and this smile had an immediate effect upon the spectators, for they rose and gazed on her with delight, while the aged chief walked up to her and made a glowing address, which would have been more satisfactory had she understood a word of it. Still, from his gestures, by his pointing anon





to the Heavens-then to the assembled crowd -and finally casting his arms around as if indicating the island, Jessie came to the conclusion, probably the correct one, that she was regarded in the light of a heaven-born emissary sent to bless the inhabitants, and hold a beneficent rule over the country. She was far too clever to try and deprecate this conclusion, for it insured her kind treatment, and consequently she strove by her nods and becks and wreathed smiles to convince the old gentleman that he was perfectly in the right.

After an interminable harangue, the old chief took Jessie by the hand, and led her toward the interior of the island. This step, apparently so simple, created the greatest delight among the natives for they sprang to their feet uttering shouts of frantic joy, blew discordant notes through conch shells, rattled calabashes filled with pebbles, struck rude gongs together-in short, made as much





noise as any civilized mob would have done at an Election.

Majestically the chief marched at the head of the procession, ever and anon distinguishing Jessie by looks of gratified pride, or waving his hand to keep back the more eager of the crowd, who pressed forward to gaze on the face of their new Divinity.

At length a semicircular clearing was reached, in which was visible a large bamboo edifice, slightly raised from the ground, while around it nestled some twenty huts. The buildings were completely sheltered by foliage, and luscious fruits hung down within hand reach.

Here the chief paused once more, then, taking Jessie by the hand, conducted her into the large building, which was evidently a temple. Here they were greeted by 24 handmaidens, all as glistening as palm oil could make them, and clothed in a light tapa petticoat, scarce reaching to the knees. After





much reverence they accompanied Jessie to the extremity of the building, where an extraordinary and rather repugnant sight presented itself.

On an estrade raised a few steps above the ground stood an altar rudely carved, and serving as support to the idols of the tribe. In the centre was a profoundly ugly Dutch image, evidently once the figure-head of some proud amiral, while, arranged in a semicircle, were other idols, the clumsy handiwork of the natives.

But what most attracted Jessie's attention were the vessels in which lights burned before the Josses. She gazed and gazed again but no, she could not be mistaken: they were skulls, blackened till they glistened, and now serving the ghastly purpose of lamps. How they grinned at her, as the light flashed through the eyeless sockets, while the halfparted teeth, dazzling with their whiteness, seemed to clash together sardonically at the





sight of the sacrifice newly offered them in the white woman and her child! Here and there were blood-marks staining the altar and the steps, and Jessie shuddered as she thought what victims could be selected by the natives to propitiate the wrath of the Gods. Might she be one?

Her fears, however, were soon relieved: after various prostrations the Priest King addressed Jessie once more, and she could easily understand that he intrusted these idols to her special care. Seeing that she fully comprehended him, he led her again by the hand before the assembled crowd, who were all busily engaged in beating their heads against the earth, and thence to an adjacent hut, where he left her to the attendance of her handmaidens. Thus, Jessie became, most unconsciously, an Indian Norma.

Her life passed pleasantly enough: the greatest attention was shewn her and her infant; she was luxuriously fed, and had but




little to do, save wander about the tangled woods, and cull flowers with which to decorate her infant. Gradually, too, her European clothes began to desert her, and she assumed the garb and manners of the Natives, while her face, bronzed by the sun, soon made her undistinguishable from the rest by a careless observer.

By degrees, too, as she managed to pick up a few words of the language, which was wondrously soft and liquid, she began to grow interested in her new friends, who, for their part, evinced their gratitude by the attention they paid her boy, who was now beginning to crawl about. In her drearest hours Jessie ever found a sweet solace in his society, and taught him to prattle artless prayers for their redemption from that captivity, which she feared would prove life-long. By degrees, too, when the novelty wore off, she felt a strange home-sickness, and her thoughts would revert to her Herbert, now doubtlessly await





ing her at Sidney, and who, perhaps, giving her up as lost, would marry again-oh, there was horror in the thought, so she strove to dispel it by renewed attentions to her boy, and hoped that this innocent intercession would procure their rescue.

It was in vain, however, that Jessie wandered along the sea-shore, searching for some distant sail which might bear her to all she loved; for a glance showed her how impossible it would be for any ship to put in here. About three miles out was a heavy belt of coral, over which the sea broke savagely, threatening destruction to any vessel that approached it, and she was not sailor. enough to notice the various passages through the reef.

Had she been happy in mind, the scene presented by the little land-locked bay would have been deeply interesting. The canoes flashed over the water, a powerful Indian standing in the bow, and spearing with extraordinary skill the fish that swam idly along





beneath for a second its glittering scales



:



shone like silver in the air, and then it was sent to bear company with its comrades in misfortune. At times, too, Jessie would enjoy a row about the bay, when her priestesses acted as crew, and the merry laughter of the girls aroused the silent echoes of the forest, which came down to the water's edge.

The native boats were scooped out of the mimosa tree, and varied in length from 16 to 30 feet, though others were much smaller: and, owing to their narrowness, they were protected from an upset by outriggers, running along either gunwale. When tired of paddling, the girls would hoist a matting sail, and the canoe would rush on at a tremendous pace, the maidens swarming over the side, and lying on the out-rigger, whenever the boat threatened to heel over. All this, accompanied by artless prattling and merry bursts of laughtêr, soothed Jessie during many hours of



sorrow.





Ere long, too, she was initiated in those eleusynian mysteries which seem to be a connecting link between all the forms of Pagan Deism throughout the world. At the dead of





night, the maidens proceeded to a forest glade where a circle was formed by the elder women, who held torches of some resinous wood, which threw a weird light over the scene. Then the girls in the scantiest possible attire bounded into the ring, and performed those wild, sensual, yet highly poetical dances which are peculiar to the Indians of the South Seas. Such a combination of grace and voluptuousness is not even found among the Awalim of Esnéh.

Jessie fancied she could trace in these dances some species of adoration, or fetish worship; had she been a scholar, they must have irresistibly reminded her of the Dryads and Oreads of the old Pagan Mythology, and a very slight exercise of imagination would have seen in these sparkling, twirling nymphs the





realization of the Poet's dreams. It is a curious fact, though, that we find among primitive people the worship of Venus usually preceding that of Deity-it is probably because the gratification of sensual appetites seems to the untutored savage the first necessity of existence. There are many persons among civilized nations who adhere to the same theory.

When the dance was over, and the panting, worn-out beauties threw themselves beneath the trees, and the pipe passed rapidly from hand to hand, the scene must have been equally striking.

On recovering from their fatigue, they rushed in a merry laughing cluster to a neighbouring rivulet, with a tiny water-fall, where they sat and talked and laughed till the very moon, wearied and disgusted by the noise, retired from the heavens, and gave way to her brother potentate, who smiled his approbation of the maidens' pranks by pouring down his hottest beams upon them. Away to the cool shade of





the huts, and the bed of leaves, where the wanton beauties slept happily and dreamlessly, till their duties summoned them to the temple.

Presently a strange commotion was visible in the vicinity of the temple, and the chiefs assembled in their war-paint for a palaver. They wore loose tapa robes and girdles, made of gaily-coloured feathers, usually sewn in rows. Their weapons principally consisted of axes, clubs, and spears, all beautifully carved and polished, and chiefly made of ebony and mimosa woods. The spears were ten feet long, and jagged at the end with flints or teeth, forming a barbed point that caused frightful wounds. They had all of them their faces tattoed generally in straight lines, crossing each other at right angles, but the higher chiefs wore representations of birds, beasts, and fishes on their foreheads. Altogether, and especially through their height and muscular proportions, they appeared to Jessie very formidable fellows.





During the whole period of the palaver, the women were excluded from the temple where the Priest Chiefs performed their incantations, cutting themselves with jagged flints and smearing the blood that flowed from the wounds over the altar stones. At length, the Gods, it may be assumed, were propitious: for the chiefs summoned in all the fighting men, and a predatory foray on a neighbouring island was decided on.

On the day of the new moon the warriors flocked down to the beach, all armed, and entered their war canoes, which were eighty feet long and crowded with natives. They glided along very swiftly, impelled by 20 stout oarsmen, and the noise of the war song they all chanted was very effective.

Fortunately, their forays are not very dangerous in their results, for the natives have a dear regard for their own lives, and usually enter an enemy's territory by night and destroy the bark of every bread-fruit and





cocoa-nut tree they can find: for this prevents the trees from bearing again for five years.

This mode of fighting possesses considerable advantages; for as the natives of these islands entirely subsist on the productions of nature, and are far too idle to grow any crops, such destruction entails very serious consequences. Prisoners are not often captured, except in the case of aged men and boys, who are unable to offer any resistance.



ཁ་



So soon as all the war canoes were assembled, the old Chief gave a signal for departure, by blowing a huge conch, and he took the lead towards the coral reef. Away shot the fleet at full speed: not a check was perceptible as they dashed towards the passage, and before long the canoes were heaving and tossing in the rough water outside the bar. The women eagerly watched them till they sank out of sight, and then returned to their peaceful avocations.

During the absence of their liege lords, it





was evident that the women were getting ready for some unusual festivity, for they prepared extraordinary quanties of cava, an intoxicating beverage produced by chewing the leaves of the tree bearing the same name. The expressed juice is then squirted into calabashes, to which cocoa-nut milk is added, and when fermentation ensues it is considered fit to drink.

At the same time, an unwonted degree of excitement was apparent among the women: although generally so listless, and hardly induced to leave their huts save on emergency, they continually flocked down to the bay, as if watching the return of the canoes, and expressed their feelings at their disappointment by harsh yells. Jessie, poor innocent, accounted for this on the natural supposition that they were anxious for the welfare of their husbands and brothers, who were exposed to the dangers of war: but, if so, this feeling had come upon them very suddenly—they





had not hitherto been in the habit of evincing



such affection.



At length, the sound of the conch announced the return of the flotilla, and all rushed to the bay. But the chieftains did not return in all that brilliant pomp which had marked their departure: many of their spears were broken, and Jessie, at the first hurried glance, missed various familiar faces. It was evident that the natives had met with a warm reception.

The women and children flocked round the warriors as they landed, and the shrill wail that now and then broke forth from one of them and was taken up by the rest, sufficiently proved that some had to mourn a beloved one. At length, all had landed, and the extent of the loss was realized. After the first natural emotion, however, they started off at full speed, uttering frightful yells, and formed a wide circle round some object





Jessie could not distinguish, lying on the beach.

She hurried up to see what was the cause of this excitement, and soon found it was produced by the sight of the prisoners who had been brought in. There they lay, twelve helpless creatures, cowering together, while the elder women danced round them like fiends, spitting at them in their fury, and apparently only refraining with difficulty from taking a fearful and immediate revenge for the loss of their relatives.

But the prisoners made no signs to betray their emotion: they lay there stolidly, never lifting their eyes from the ground, or even revealing the slightest feeling, when one woman, or another, more frenzied than the rest, madly kicked them in their faces.

At length the old chief made a sign: the women sullenly fell back, and some young warriors stepped forward and lifted the prisoners from the ground. The cocoa-fibre





fastenings were removed from their legs, and they were led away in the direction of the forest.

This sight rather disturbed Jessie's equanimity: hitherto she had only seen the bright side of savage life, and had thought the natives good, harmless men, who would have been all the better for a little more clothing, perhaps, but who never showed any of those feelings generally supposed to be peculiar to savages-but suppose, after all, they wereugh, she hardly liked to utter the word, even to herself.

But what did they do with their prisoners? She had never seen any on the island, nor had anything tended to prove that they employed them as slaves-indeed, in a country where nobody worked, such articles of household use would prove a very superfluous luxury; so Jessie grew more and more thoughtful, and made up her mind to find out all about it. There certainly was something stirring :





even her attendants seemed in an extraordinary state of excitement, lubricating themselves with more than ordinary care, and carefully selecting the flowers they interwove in their glorious tresses.

They chattered away more than ever, and by their repeated observation of the sun it was evident some great solemnity was about to take place that night.

What on earth could it be? Jessie thought to herself. At any rate, she was determined to find out. And very foolish on her part, say I, for this was decidedly a case, if ever there were one, when, if ignorance were bliss, 't were decided folly to be wise.





CHAPTER III.



THE ESCAPE.



A WEEK had elapsed and yet Jessie was no wiser than of yore. In spite of all her attempts to solve the mystery, she could gain no satisfaction of her curiosity, and was almost beginning to laugh at her own fears when a very unpleasant discovery redoubled all her apprehensions.

On going into the temple one morning to perform her usual duties of trimming the lamps and seeing that the idols had not run away in the night, it suddenly flashed across her mind. that the number of ghastly lamps was increased.





She rubbed her eyes as if fancying she must be deceived; but no, there was the fearful evidence staring her in the face; she counted and recounted the skulls, and discovered to her horror that four had been added. Oh! it was terrible! There was some fearful mystery concealed behind this, which she must solve.

Her resolution was soon formed; she re

turned to her hut and feigned a sudden illness which would prevent her going out again that day. Profuse were the regrets occasioned by this, and untiring were her handmaidens in offering their services, which she accepted with ill-disguised loathing.

When night set in, one of the girls remained by the side of the sick priestess, much against her wish. At length, however, Jessie pretended to fall off into a deep sleep, and before long had the satisfaction of hearing the girl glide from the hut. In a second, Jessie had thrown a dark tapa over her head, and was following her secretly through the forest.





It was a weary distance ere the girl appeared to reach her destination, but at length, after passing through a thick uninhabited scrub, Jessie saw before her a stout bamboo stockade, some ten feet high. Passing along a narrow railed lane, which could easily have been defended by a few resolute men, Jessie found herself gazing down into a circular valley, round which the stockade ran. It was a species of arena, in which the terrible sacrifice was consummated.

The natives were collected in scattered groups, singing and dancing, or reclining beneath the graceful clumps of trees. But Jessie's attention was soon attracted from them to the centre of the arena, where four large fires burned merrily, and over them four bodies turned slowly round, which must be human.

The breeze bore to Jessie that peculiar fetid smell of burning flesh which Blanco White, in describing an auto da fé, declares to be precisely like pork roasting; and had Jessie entertained




any doubt on the subject, the sight of the four remaining prisoners, fastened to trees and forced to behold the destruction of their friends, would have removed it.

Jessie shuddered even more, though, when she saw the girls, with whom she had spent so many happy hours, now dancing round the gloomy pyres in turn, and uttering frenzied shouts of joy. She could not endure the sight, but turning from the spot with a groan she returned to her hut, which now appeared wretched to her. What would she give, could she only escape from these cannibals! Beside the loathing such a scene naturally produced, Jessie was moved by a more selfish consideration. She had read of the man-eating tigers in India, which, when they have once tasted that peculiar luxury, turn up their nose at honest beef and mutton, and insist on breakfasting on a native. Suppose, she thought, prisoners were to run short, and these wretches, having acquired a taste for human flesh, could





only gratify it by sacrificing her.



Oh, the



very thought made her blood run cold-she must get away from this accursed island. It would be better to be devoured by a shark than by such blood-thirsty wretches as these.

But it was all very well to talk about escaping -the difficulty was how to effect it.

In the first place, Jessie knew perfectly well that the natives regarded her in some degree as a hostage for the Gods looking kindly on their prospects and thus insuring their success; and although they never interfered with her liberty of action, there was quite sufficient to tell her that she was gardèe à vue, and all the attentions lavished on her were only meant to keep her from escaping.

For instance-she was never allowed to enter a canoe alone, and whenever she confessed a wish to approach the reefs, there was always a multitude of excuses, not half of which she understood, but which perfectly well convinced her that she would never be permitted a chance





of escape. Again: if she wandered about the island, she continually stumbled over some warrior or other in the forest, and was eventually compelled to return to her hut by their polite attentions, and their exaggerated alarm about something awful that would occur to her if she went further on.

So Jessie might lie on her sleepless couch, excogitating all sorts of schemes, but they all produced one result-she was compelled to remain among the people she detested.

It was a hard task for Jessie to conceal her feelings of loathing, when the rosy-lipped maidens the next morning dipped their fingers in the poa gourd, and she remembered the nature of the last meal they had enjoyed. If one of them played with little Herbert, as they were wont to do, or stifled him with kisses, she would snatch him from her arms and press him to her bosom, as if striving to shield him from contamination. The girls looked their surprise, and could not account for this sudden change.





in their mistress; but, assuming she was still suffering from the effects of her illness, they left her to her own devices, and declared her "tabu," which screened her from all unpleasant visitors.

Jessie really was ill; the scene she had recently witnessed caused her the deepest loathing, and the thought that she must probably end her days among these savages added to her illness. Gradually she fell into a state of brooding melancholy; her gay laugh was no more heard pealing over the waters; no more did she visit the night-dances-in a word she was no longer of those among whom she lived.

This state of things caused the Priest King grave disquietude, for he naturally assumed that Jessie's illness was a visitation from the Gods, who were dissatisfied at something they had done or left undone. Hence he had recourse to an infinity of incantations, and expended an enormous amount of blood in propitiating the wrath of the Gods. But it was all of no





avail; Jessie became more reserved than ever, and the poor islanders were in despair.

Fortunately for Jessie, an event was about to occur, which entirely altered the tenor of her life and restored her to health.

She was reclining on her bed one evening, lulling little Herbert to sleep with nursery songs -her only consolation in the hour of needwhen her hut was suddenly invaded by a party of armed men. Fearing evil from this profanation of the "tabu," which the savages were wont to hold so sacred, Jessie caught up a little spear from the walls, but the leader walked smilingly toward her, threw a tapa over her head, and before she was able to scream it was so artistically fastened round her throat that she could breathe and that was all. Suddenly she felt herself lifted from the ground, and carried into the open air.

It was long ere her bearer allowed her feet to rest on the ground again, but when he did so and the tapa was removed, she found her



*





self in the mouth of a cave, which she had never seen before. The leader of the party made a number of profound apologies, as she supposed, for this breach of the bienséances, and then retired, leaving Jessie and her baby under the charge of four men, who kindled a fire in the mouth of the cave and sat round it chewing the cava nut.

Jessie sat brooding in a corner wondering what this all meant, and whether the fire were lighted expressly for herself,-when suddenly a tremendous noise smote on her ear. She listened attentively-it was-there was no mistake-it was the report of a cannon, and presently the rolling sound of a platoon fire pealed through the woods, evidencing that help was



near.



The noise of the explosion struck the natives with consternation: the sky was perfectly cloudless-then, how could the thunder come from there? They gazed around them in vacant astonishment, and at length two of the





number slipped away, after casting many glances on Jessie, as if suspecting that the infringement of the tabu was the cause of this noisy wrath on the part of the Gods.

Sharper and sharper grew the musketry fire, but, at length, came a sound which seemed to rend the heavens and mountains asunder -the vessel had discharged a broadside. The round shot crashed through the woods, hurling down huge branches, and the two savages evidently thought the end of the world was come. They fell on their faces before Jessie, and seemed to implore her intercession.

Now or never was the moment, if she wished to escape. She snatched up her boy and the spear, and assuming a haughty air walked toward the prostrate men. They shrank back in terror, as if her touch were death-laden, and she slowly descended into the forest. So soon, however, as she was out of their sight, she hastened her footsteps, and from a prominence was enabled to survey the bay.





Her heart beat violently: rescue was before her; there lay a stately vessel with her boarding lights flashing far across the water, while below she could hear the hearty cheers of the sailors as they pursued the natives in the scrub. But there was no time to waste in observation -the pursuit could not last long owing to the intricacy of the forest, and the boats might push off, ere she could reach the beach.

Fear lent wings to her feet, and Jessie hurried onward toward the skirt of the forest. She was just on the point of stepping out into the moonlight, when a hand was laid on her arm, and a harsh voice hissed in her ear. She turned and saw the aged Priest, who imperiously ordered her to stay. She shook her head, and as the old man put out his hand to seize her child, instinctively guessing that she would not give him up, the dauntless woman drove her spear through his chest and continued her flight:

When she gained the beach the scene that





presented itself was striking: a party of marines were defending the passage of the sailors into the boat, and were themselves on the point of embarkation. Jessie fled toward them at full speed, but to her horror found that she was pursued. From behind every tree emerged a savage, reckless of death from the white man they could not endure the loss of the goddess.



:



Still Jessie fled onwards, and fortunately for her the commotion attracted the attention of the officers. The men were ordered out of the boats again to check the Islanders, and Jessie had just time to cry, "Help! help! I am an Englishwoman!" as she fell to the ground. The loose shingle had nearly robbed her of her strength.

In a second, a young commander had sprung toward her and raised her from the ground. A desperate fight again took place, but the Islanders were beaten back once more. In his fury, one of them, as he retired, hurled a spear





at Jessie, but the officer generously threw himself before her, and received a wound in his arm; within half an hour all were safe on board again.

Jessie, half laughing and half crying, was taken down into the Captain's cabin, where he soon hastened to join her, after having his wound dressed. He then began talking with her

about her fortunate escape.

"We heard from the crew of the Ramchunder that some of the passengers, it was supposed, had managed to make land on one of these savage islands, and so the Governor of New South Wales sent me down with this vessel to look for them; we had tried every island without success, and had put in here as a last hope. The fellows positively had the impudence to try and carry the ship. However, we have read them such a lesson that they will not attempt that again for some time. And now let me hear your story."

And Jessie, of course, told him all that had





occurred to her, to which he listened most attentively. At length he said,

"You must really excuse me, but I cannot help fancying your face is familiar to me. It seems to call up memories of childhood, but I seek in vain the connecting link. Tell me, did you never hear my name, or know me anywhere? I am Brian Folgate."



tr



Oh, my dear Master Brian, how wrong of me to forget you! Of course I remember you, for I am Jessie Meadows-that is to say, I





And in her excitement she kissed him on the forehead, and then blushing deeply drew back.

"But tell me, Master Brian," she went on hurriedly, "you come from Sydney, do n't you? Pray tell me, did you see Mr. Leigh there?"







Why, what on earth has brought him into your head, Jessie? I certainly saw him last year, but it was in London, as one of the richest and gayest young men about town."





"My Herbert in London! oh, you must be mistaken. Why, he is my husband, whom I told you I had so strangely missed."

"Pooh, my dear child, you must be mistaken. He is now Mr Gaston, a man of fashion I saw him nearly every day at my sister Blanche's.'







:



Will that convince you, then ?" said Jessie, taking from her neck a fish-skin pouch, from which she produced her marriage certificate, which she had preserved through all her misfortunes as a talisman.

Brian hurriedly perused it, and his brow darkened.

"Villain! doubly-dyed villain!" he muttered; then, turning to Jessie, he added, "Why, in the last letter I received from my sister Blanche she said she hoped he would soon marry my sister Alice."

What meant that sudden pallor that drove all the colour from Jessie's tawny cheek? It was jealousy-fierce, numbing jealousy, which





seemed to ice her heart's blood. Oh! if it were true, she would be awfully avenged! But it could not be that her Herbert, for whom she had made such sacrifices, had played such a villain's part! Why had he not followed her to Sydney by the next ship? Could it be all a planned trick-had he known of this sudden accession of fortune, and sent her across the water for the purpose of getting rid of her?

I cannot pretend to describe one tithe of the black thoughts that crossed Jessie's mind; she had assumed much of the Indian character unconsciously: her whole life did not seem long enough for her vengeance if things were really as Brian described them. But she must be convinced.

Brian, like an honest, open Englishman, made no attempt to disguise his feelings.





'Well, Jessie," he said, "this is a most extraordinary affair, and I will sift it to the bottom. So soon as I reach Sydney, I will write to my sister, telling her of all I have





heard, and bidding her stop the proposed marriage, and thus prevent a terrible crime. But leave me now, Jessie: I have given orders for you to be comfortably looked after, and my wound is beginning to numb my arm. A good night's rest will set me all right."

Brian's good intentions, unfortunately, went to repair the pavement of that classic spot where paving stones must be dirt cheap. When his servant called him the next morning, and on receiving no answer drew aside the curtains of his bed, he found him quite dead, The surgeon was hurriedly fetched, and on examination gave it as his opinion that the gallant Commander had been poisoned by some stupifying ointment on the point of the spear, which had gradually numbed his entire body; and Jessie, on cross-examination, confessed that the natives made use of such, though, in the excitement of her escape, she had forgotten all about it.

During the mournful passage to Sydney,





Jessie had unhappily much time for reflection, and the evil thoughts she garnered were in their way as poisonous as the spear which had ended Brian's days, for they destroyed all moral perception in her. So far did they prey on her cankered mind, that she almost rejoiced in the death of the only man who knew her real name, and she determined, henceforth, to work in the dark. Once let her prove Herbert's guilt, and then she would commence a duel with him which must end in the death of one or both.

Hence she decided on taking the name of a Mrs Wilson, a fellow passenger in the Ramchunder, to whom she bore considerable likeness, and would thus prevent any news of her escape reaching Herbert's ears. As for the rest, she had not made up her mind what to do-but to one thing she remained constant evershe would be bitterly avenged on her recreant husband.

Her arrival at Sydney produced a decided





sensation, and her youth and beauty opened all purses in her favour. One speculative gentleman went so far as to offer her a handsome sum, if she would allow herself to be exhibited in the native garb at so much a head, and an additional sum if she would consent to execute several native war dances, but this obliging offer, as well as several others of marriage, which she received almost before she had landed, she most respectfully declined. A subscription was opened for her, to which. the whole city most liberally responded; she was an eight days' wonder, and then gradually retired into obscurity, her place being taken by a greasy Dingo girl, who professed devout Christianity, and eventually went back to the bush, after robbing her good missionary master of all the valuables he possessed.

I think I have already shown that Jessie's was essentially an ill-regulated mind; though full of warm impulses, and ready to go through fire and water for the man who treated her





kindly, she was at heart but a woman. The thought of treachery overpowered all other considerations, and she was resolute on having her revenge, no matter if it risked her own eternal happiness.

Had she been brought up in a good school, and taught that when smitten on one cheek it was her duty humbly to put forward the other, I need not have written this sad history. But where shall we find women of that calibre? are all our wives and sweethearts made of that dulcet stuff which Mr Thackeray's Amelia is composed of? were they so, we should soon cloy of the insipidity. Would we not all, in our heart of hearts, prefer a Becky Sharpe, and flatter ourselves with the idea that we could arouse in her that grand passion which would keep her true to ourselves, and prevent her being led astray by the glittering gauds of a Marquis of Steyne?

The one mainspring of woman's mind is jealousy. I care not whether of husband,





lover, sister or mother, for she suffers from that passion through the most trivial causes. Here it is a jealousy aroused by a new gown; there excited by an accomplishment she does not possess. All this, I grant, in a somewhat undeveloped form, but, for all that, it is jealousy. But when the feeling is enkindled as between the legitime and the supposed rival in her husband's affection, then, Bucks, have ye all!



at



And, after all, I can hardly blame women. They ask but a little thing from us, and in return for that they are ready to lay down their lives for us. If they once believe in the fidelity of their husbands, proof strong as holy writ will not cause them to swerve from their allegiance. They will be our humble, most devoted slaves, put up with all our freaks, endure all our ill-temper, starve themselves that we may not lack our trumpery luxuries, and all the reward they desire is fidelity.

Then, why the deuce cannot married men





make that slight sacrifice ?-why is it that they' demand a license for wrong-doing, which they deny the other sex?-why do they make all these laws for the strong and none for the weak ? why is a woman expelled from society for one fault, while the man may commit twenty with impunity?

It is, after all, the old story of the Painter and the Lion.





CHAPTER IV.



THE HONEYMOON.



LITTLE, however, did Herbert, when he went with Alice to the altar, conjecture what fearful power he was placing in the hands of his worst enemy. Little did he suspect that the woman with whom he had gone through the same ceremony before had in her grasp a terrible weapon, which would destroy all his happiness at the moment she pleased. Jessie had carried out her schemes with such calculated precision, and had kept so carefully in the back-ground, while Herbert, in the prospect of coming bliss, had quite forgotten that she had ever existed





-that she had full leisure to work out her

plan of revenge, and brood with malicious joy over the confusion she would create when she made her appearance on the scene.

One word from her would have prevented all this unhappiness, but that word she would not utter. The woman who had so innocently supplanted her must undergo all the agony she had herself gone through. From this fell purpose Jessie never once flinched: chosen by destiny to act the part of a vengeful Nemesis, she had steeled her heart against all emotion, and moved onwards to her fell purpose with the impassiveness of Juggernauth's car, as it crushes its victims.

Herbert was in the central heaven of delight; he and Alice had retired to a secluded spot in North Wales, where, freed from all the cares and responsibilities of wealth, they saw the days glide by as if in a dream. Every passing hour increased his delight, for it taught him that he had never thoroughly





known Alice till he married her. Now, he could guage the depths of her heart, and survey entranced the rich treasures of love that welled up from it. Every thought of her pure, artless mind was confided to him, not a cloud appeared on the horizon of their felicity, and Herbert breathed a profound sigh of satisfaction that he had at length reached the promised haven, where he could lie at his moorings, careless of the storms that ruffled the surface of the outer world.

At times, though, he feared that this happiness was too great to last,--that he had not deserved it. Looking back on his past life, and his repeated sins of omission and commission, he felt himself unworthy of this great store of love bestowed so lavishly on himself, and he shuddered at the thought that it might be suddenly torn from him.

He had now reached the third and most perfect phase of love: his first amour for Jessie had, after all, been of a selfish character,





and he had married her almost from compassion; flattered by the idea that her life depended on his redeeming his promise. But the passion was evanescent: the absence of the once cherished object had eradicated all traces of his love, and he now looked back with amazement on the past, and wondered how he could have let himself be seduced by a pair of bright eyes and a few languishing speeches. Jessie, decidedly, was not the woman to make him happy, and he confessed with a sigh that her loss was, perhaps, all for the best.

Next came that tornado of passion which had enveloped him when he met Blanche again. Her glorious beauty, and the encouragement she gave him, intoxicated him, and in that state he would have committed any act of folly, could he only call her his own. But here, too, a tinge of another passion was intermingled, for, in vowing an undying love to the proud girl, he desired to punish her for her rejection of his magnificent self, and make





her feel what she had lost, by a comparison



with what she had gained.



But this feeling soon merged in one of mad passion-Blanche must be his at any price, for he was irrevocably in love with her. Without her the world appeared to him a blank.

And yet, so strangely are men's minds constituted, that, even during the terrible scene that took place at Tenby on her widowhood, he could not refrain, when gazing on her faded charms, from confessing to himself that there was much good sense in her suggestion as to his marrying Alice. Still, his passion could not be rooted out so suddenly: he had loved Blanche, sinfully, it is true, but the feeling passed muster as the real passion, and his pride revolted at the shock when he found his dreams could not be realized.

Then came the war episode, and absence from Blanche's side, which altogether blotted out the remains of his great passion, and then he congratulated himself on his fortunate es





cape. The love Blanche could bestow was only an electro-gilt representation of the real article.

Now, in the third phase of his love, he began to appreciate the sickliness of those passions which had hitherto occupied its place in his heart. His affection for Alice was no sudden impulse, no sensual desire inflamed by difficulties-he had by slow degrees learned to feel an all-absorbing love for her, with nothing earthly about it. The mere possession of the beloved object was not what led him on: it was some mysterious influence, some hallowed charm which Alice exhaled, and which steeped his senses in ecstasy. He could have lived his whole life through by her side without a thought of marriage; could he but see her and hear her,-it was sufficient happiness for him.

And now that she was all his own, his constant companion, ready to become his loving slave, was his happiness more perfect?



It





would be difficult to decide: it is true that the certainty of having her as his own soothed any fears of possible separation, but, on the other hand, their intercourse had lost some of its piquancy. Still, he was happy, profoundly happy, and was never weary of telling Alice so, who, herself, was too happy to find words in which to clothe her feelings. They lived in a Paradise of their own creation, but the serpent was gliding around it, ready to crawl in when the appointed time came.





The only interruption of their solitude was the Catholic Padre, without whose consolations Mrs Gaston could not exist. Fortunately, he was an old and well-meaning man, and hence did not cause any disturbance in their mode of life, which some priests, I am sorry to say, are in the habit of doing-setting the wife against the husband, salvation against mundane enjoyment.

It would have done your heart good to hear how Alice and the Padre, in a strict of





fensive and defensive alliance, besieged Herbert in the hope of converting him from his heresy, and how he laughingly let them inoculate him with whatever they pleased. He was too full of happiness to require religion just at present as a comforter. When Alice, therefore, fancied she had gained a tremendous victory over the Evil One, as she led her husband triumphantly to Mass, she little suspected that he only went because he wished her life to be all sunshine, and would not be the cause of raising a cloud on the horizon of her domestic felicity.

And so the hours flew past, Herbert growing more deeply in love each day, as he discovered fresh charms in the woman who adored him.

And what was Jessie about all this time ?

To know that we must follow her to the offices of Mr Grabham, Gent. by Act, &c., in Thavies' Inn.





"And so you say, sir, that all I can do is to give him in charge for bigamy?

(She had laid a suppositious case before the eminent attorney, so that she might be quite sure as to the course she pursued, and give Herbert no chance of escape.)

"That is all, I imagine, and I dare say the judge would regard the matter very leniently. You allow that the report of your death was generally believed, and though your husband was to blame for not making closer inquiries, still, he has acted in this matter with good faith.”

"But cannot I make him recognise his son and settle all his property on him?





"Well! after the harsh measures you propose, by which you will disgrace a gentleman of high position (as you say) and a young lady of fortune who has unconsciously married him, I think he would be more





than human were he to do anything for that son beyond what the law will enforce. Had the estates been entailed, it would have been a different matter; then, for your son's sake, you would have been compelled to come forward-but as it is





Well!" said Jessie impatiently.

"I would suggest a compromise: see this husband of yours and work on him. I act wrong in giving you this advice, I know, for it is compounding a felony-but, looking at the matter in the right light, I think it would be better for everybody's sake to hush it up."

Jessie thanked the solicitor and left his office. How was he to know the fierce passion that was tugging at her heart-strings, when she thought that her husband was perhaps at that very moment dallying with another woman? No compromise for her she would hold the threat of disclosure over him and





see whether he feared it. If so, the game would



be her own.



Had she not been blinded by jealousy, Jessie would have allowed that her husband was not so much to blame after all. His gravest fault in her eyes was in not following her to Sydney, and thence she drew the conclusion that he had made up his mind to get rid of her, by putting 16,000 miles of water between them and leaving her without a shilling to return. But, even if he had gone out, the loss of the Ramchunder would have happened just the same: he would not have waited there all the time Jessie was prisoner among the savages, and he would have, probably, acted just as he had done.

But Jessie had made up her mind that Herbert had deceived her; and no power on earth would have convinced her to the



contrary.





"It is the last day, Alice dear, of our happy seclusion here: all is prepared for our return to London and its frivolities, and I much regret that the time has slipped away so quick."





Then, why need we go, Herbert, among those stupid people, who will rob me of a portion of your society, and make us look back with regret on our home here?'





"Silly dove, you forget the responsibilities attending wealth. I have had half-a-dozen letters from my steward, urging my paying a visit to the Larches, for he says the property is going to wrack and ruin during my long absence, and that a master's eye is required. But never mind, Alice, I intend to spend the autumn in the country, and, if you like, we can be as rusticated there as we have been here."



:



Oh I am so glad," said Alice, clapping her

hands, "then we shall escape from that odious

London with its follies and late hours. Oh what a good boy you are!"





No, Alley, you will not escape so easily. We must stop a month in town, at any rate, before we go to the Larches. What would the world say were I to deprive it so suddenly of its brightest ornament? and, besides, you will have to be presented, and a thousand other things."

Alice put on an adorable pout, which her husband soon kissed away, and like a good obedient creature she yielded to the inevitable.

Before long they were comfortably settled. in their London home, which Herbert had ordered to be remodelled solely with a view to Alice's comfort. Doing homage to her love of birds and flowers, an exquisite little conservatory opened out of her boudoir, in which played a sparkling fountain, and he thus tried as far as he could to compensate to her for the loss of the country. Here she was as happy as the day was long; time did not



appear to hang heavy on her hands, and she trained her pets to fly about her boudoir and come to her call.

One day, then, on Herbert returning from his ride and hurrying up to her, he was surprised to find her bathed in tears.

"Why, my dearest Alice, what on earth is the matter with



you?





"Oh, something so dreadful has happened," she cried as she clung round his neck; "only think, when I came back from the luncheon room, I found that a strange cat had crept in through the window of the conservatory, and see, it has killed both my pets."

And she burst into a fresh flood of tears, Herbert striving in vain to console her.

"Oh! no! Herbert! it is not so much the loss of the birds, though I loved them dearly and they were so fond of me, but I am startled by the accident, for I feel it is an omen that something is about to interrupt our happi





"Pooh, pooh, child, what can possibly happen that should interfere with us? You must not give way to these morbid fancies. I assure you that you will be ill if you are so impressionable, and I shall have to send for Doctor Jones to annoy you."

But it was a long time ere Alice could be comforted. It appeared to her as if a lightning flash had struck her from a cloudless sky, and she brooded for a long time over this untoward event. Her previsions had not deceived her, however; the knell of her happiness was about to toll.

Again Herbert returned from his ride, and on entering the vestibule one of the gorgeous flunkies handed him a note, which he said a person had left for him, with "paticklar directions" that it should be put in his hands. Thinking it some begging petition, he idly went up with it in his hand to Alice's room, and laid it down on the table, and it was not till his wife drew his attention to it that he opened it. The peru





sal, however, produced an extraordinary effect

upon him he fell back into a chair, with a



:



deep groan, but took care to crush the letter tightly in his hand.

Alice, in her alarm, rushed toward him, but he motioned her away.







It is only the heat, dearest, and the smell of the flowers. Give me a glass of water: I shall be better directly."

But he did not get better so soon, and, at length, faintly ejaculating that he must go into the open air, he quitted the room.

So soon as he gained the street, he hurriedly re-perused the letter which had produced so startling an effect upon him. It was certainly a tremendous blow.

"If Mr Gaston wishes to obtain any tidings about his wife, Jessie Leigh, who was long supposed to be dead, but was miraculously restored to life, he had better, to prevent all unpleasantness, call this evening at No. ——————, Gerrard Street, Soho, and ask for Mrs Wilson."





What was he to do? there was no doubt in the matter, Jessie had returned to life to tor

ture him-his pleasant vices were about to Scourge him.

He was in a pitiable state of mind: he felt certain that any exposure would be death to Alice, or at any rate she would be lost to him for ever, for she would not consent for a moment to live in a state of sin.

And Jessie, what did she intend to do? Here there was a gleam of hope: she was aware that he had married again, and had made no sign. Perhaps she was prepared to make a compromise, and allow him to continue in his life of sin. But no, when he thought of her character this hope was cut away from under him, and he felt that she was meditating some scheme which would not tend to his comfort.

Then he thought of the disgrace which would fall on him, were Jessie to denounce

him, and the whole affair be published in the





papers, and when this occurred to him, he half made up his mind to realise all he could and fly to America.

But, no! he could not find it in his heart to leave Alice; she must be his companion if he fled, and what excuse could he offer her? He almost regretted that she was so pure in heart, for had she been more ductile to sin he might have worked upon her pride, and they would fly to some secret spot where Jessie could never pursue them.

His thoughts were a perfect chaos: he even went so far as to meditate suicide as the easiest way of escaping from the dreadful complication. But then he was again checked by the thought of Alice, who would pine away, and he would thus be doubly a murderer. No! he must endure meekly all that was in store for him.

But anything was better than suspense, so, after proceeding to his Club, and drinking a





bottle of port wine to sustain his courage, he slinked along to Gerrard Street at about ten o'clock, and was immediately shown in.





While these scenes were taking place in

London, another, bearing equal importance for our hero, was enacting in Yorkshire. The cause was simple enough: Jessie's aunt had recently died, and had left her savings to her neice. This was sheer carelessness on her part she had once mustered up enough courage to make a will, and had never altered it, although she had not heard of Jessie for years. Hence, when death seized upon her suddenly, the lawyers found the will, and immediately set to work hunting Jessie up.

Among other devices they had recourse to was advertising her in a Yorkshire paper (the solicitor happening to be the proprietor of it), and Mrs Wiggins, who was peculiarly apt to make acquaintances at Boulogne, and who never laid down a paper till she had read every





line, one day happened to stumble over the advertisement in a newspaper lying on the table of her last new friend, Lady Stoughton..

The connexion between Jessie Meadows and a Mr Herbert Leigh, to whom she was married in the year struck her at once, and she was very soon en route for Yorkshire, to try and find out all about it. She had a real sisterly hatred for Alice, because she was so happy, and if she could only get hold of a secret worth having, she might compel Mr Gaston to make her a handsome allowance. At any rate the chance must not be thrown away.

Harriette found her suspicions confirmed. Jessie Meadows, who married Mr Herbert Leigh, was the very Jessie who had been, once upon a time, her handmaiden: but her hopes were dashed to the ground when she heard that the person in question, there was evidence to show, had sailed to Australia in the Ramchunder, and had been lost with all on board.





This rather disappointed Harriette, for she would have liked a tight hold on her sister's husband and thus repay him past scores. Still there was a crumb of consolation in the thought that Mr Gaston had kept this marriage remarkably quiet, which seemed to show he was ashamed of it, and would not like it publicly known. She would feel his pulse, at any rate, and if things were as she suspected, he would be glad to buy her silence. If not-well, she could betray the secret to Alice, and thus cause some unpleasantness in the family. Dear, amiable, creature!

The web is closed tightly round Herbert now; he has two women as his enemies, and one is generally supposed sufficient to ruin any man. How can he escape? Will he break through the entanglements, or allow himself to be hopelessly fettered, and leave his life's happiness at their mercy?

He now stands at the cross roads like





Hercules in the fable, and the choice is left him. My readers can guess for themselves, or else my feeble attempts to delineate his character have been in vain.





CHAPTER V.



THE COMPROMISE.



"Son, Mr Leigh," said Jessie, "we meet again at last. As you did not come to Australia to join me, I was obliged to return. But you had your reasons of course, you were better engaged."



st



This is a sad business, Jessie," Herbert replied mournfully, "and recrimination can only make it worse. Tell me what you would have, and I will try to satisfy your wishes. Would you have money? if so, I will settle a fortune on you--but spare the innocent victim of so dreadful an error."





"Did you spare me? I slaved for you, and would have laid down my life for you at any moment. And yet, when fortune came upon you, all your desire was to get me out of the country, in the hope I might never return to interfere with your grandeur.”

"You are wrong, utterly wrong, Jessie. I was coming to join you, when I heard of the wreck-but no matter, all that is past now; let us strive to come to some understanding, by which matters can be hushed up.'





"That is very easy-put away the woman who usurps my place; ah, you wince at that thought I suppose you would make any sacrifice sooner than part with her. But there is no reason why I should be called upon to make a sacrifice. I only ask what is mine, not a particle more.'





"Consider the disgrace such a public separaton would entail on both parties





"Bah!" Jessie said sharply, interrupting him; "it is no use attempting to arouse my





sympathies for Alice. I do not forget that she was my rival before, and I gained the day. I

have not yet proved my victory to her, but 1 shall do so before long."



make any



"Bear in mind, then, that if you public exposure, by the heavens that made me not one shilling will I spend to support you or your boy. You may starve together."

"And that will be a great loss, surely," Jesste replied sarcastically; "we have already shared your bounty so largely that the sudden cessation of it would prove our ruin. Well, I will risk that all I want is the vindication of my honour and that of my boy, and so soon as that is done, we shall neither of us trouble you again. Do not for one moment imagine that it is any sentiment of love that causes me to wrest you from this woman; for, believe me, if I saw you dying at my feet, and I could save you by stretching out my hand, I would not do it."

"God knows, I have given you no reason





for such a feeling, Jessie, but be it so. Tell me, then, what you propose."



cr



Oh dear, no! I leave that for you to do. It is simple enough: I request you to put away this woman who has usurped my placerob her of her borrowed plumes, and secure my rights, and then she may have you back again at once."

"You know very well that Alice would not for a moment consent to any such suggestion. Besides, it would kill her to learn she had been so disgraced."

"And what do I care for that? I have stared death in the face twenty times since you deserted me, but I am none the worse for it. Either take the initiative yourself, or I will go to Bow Street to-morrow and lay all the circumstances before the magistrate. There I shall be pitied, and the great Mr Gaston be most deservedly held up to public execration."

"By such a step you would ruin us all.





Bigamy is felony, don't you understand? and in case of conviction all my property would be estreated by the Exchequer. Then I could do nothing for your boy, while if you will talk rationally we may find a solution satisfactory to all parties. You say that you are only acting on his behalf-if so, by carrying out your threats you become his worst enemy.'



!



The truth of this argument seemed to stagger Jessie, and she remained for some time in deep thought. Herbert noticed this and determined to follow up his advantage.

"See, Jessie, if you will only come to some amicable arrangement it will be best for all parties. You have no affection for me, but you have for our boy-let him, then, be the object of our united care. All I ask is, let not this dreadful secret be revealed during Alice's life-time; whenever God may please to call her to Himself again, I care not what exposure you may make. You may cry our secret from the housetops and I will not gainsay you.”





Again Jessie thought a long time: on the one hand she must give up her revenge which she had hugged so long; on the other she might ensure the welfare of her boy. At length she said:



cr



"On one condition, and only one, I will agree to maintain silence. You will draw up a will bequeathing your entire property to your first-born legitimate son, and that deed will be placed in my possession."

"But what security shall I have," Herbert said, greatly startled by this proposition, "that you will not disclose the secret to Alice?"

"That will depend entirely on yourselfyour present connection with that person must be placed on a very different footing, you understand me-there must be no son born to invalidate the rights of my boy. This must be, for your estate in Clodshire must be left to your first-born son, and I will not consent to run any risk of a Chancery suit, which might devour all the property. I must have





your



a recognition of my boy in hand writing, and the rest will depend on yourself."

"Oh my God, Jessie, the conditions you offer are too hard to bear. You rob me of all my happiness, and wish to build a wall of dissension between myself and a woman who loves me dearly."



And whom you



dearly love in return, I suppose I may add. Well, that is no concern of mine: if you don't like to accept my proposals, you know the alternative. It is a matter of perfect indifference to me which way matters may turn, I assure you, and it is only for my boy's sake that I let you off so cheaply. The popular Mr Gaston, the admired Mr Gaston, would find penal servitude a very unsatisfactory exchange for his present luxurious life."

Again there was a long pause, and Herbert knew not what answer to make. Had he only any one he could consult on the subject-but he did not dare breathe so momentous a secret





even to his confessor. At length, then, he



said with a sigh,





Well, Jessie, I suppose I must accept your proposition, though it is a hard one. What will become of us I do not know, but I see plainly you are preparing a life of misery for all parties."

"I have taken all that into consideration; my resolve is not one of to-day or yesterday. I have watched you for a long time, when you little suspected it, and the result has fully answered my expectations.".

A sudden horror fell upon Herbert at these words.

"What do I understand you aright? You could have prevented this ill-starred marriage by one word, and yet you allowed me to be so inextricably entangled. Oh! Jessie, you are sadly altered!"

'Have I not reasons for it," she answered



re



passionately, do you think that a woman can

endure such treatment as I have experienced





from you, and, like a well-trained spaniel, lick the hand that inflicts the blow? No! I glory in what I have done; had I not allowed you to form this marriage, I and my child would have had no security that we should be treated honestly by you, but now I have a guarantee in fear of an exposure."



your



You have taken a terrible revenge, Jessie; look to it that you are not the greatest sufferer in the long run. You doom me to a life of misery and deception, but mark me, the day will come when you will bitterly repent it. Such feelings of vindictiveness as those you cherish will demand expiation sooner or later."

"I am quite prepared to take all the consequences on my own head; do you carry out your part of the engagement, and I will be satisfied. But, mind you, I shall be an inexorable taskmaster, and if you dare to swerve one hairsbreadth from the line I have laid down for you, the punishment will fall heavily



on you."





"I am in your hands, Jessie, and can say





One thing, though, let me add. As I know that men are naturally fallible, and prone to weakness, I must make one more stipulation; to-morrow I shall present myself to Mrs Gaston, who, I am sure, will be delighted to see me, in consideration of old times, and offer her my services as lady's maid. In that way I shall be always on the spot, and enabled to remind you, whenever I see any symptoms of your going astray from our conditions."





"the



Fiend, fiend," Herbert groaned, penalty is a terrific price to pay for one moment of error."

"Not at all," Jessie replied calmly, "you cannot, I dare say, realize what I have undergone in finding that the man I once loved turned out so utter a scoundrel to me, and I would not have believed it without the proofs I now possess. And remember, Mr Leigh, however bad I may be now in heart you made





me so; by your cruel and infamous conduct you have eradicated every spark of charity from my mind, and I care not whom I crush so long as I gain my object. I deal fairly with you; I tell you what I have become, and warn you not to rouse me.



The matter is en



tirely in your hands; I have lost a husband, and I shall make you lose wife in return;



your



you condemned me to misery, careless what became of me and mine, and it will be my care now that you shall not sleep on a bed of





"Will nothing move you, Jessie, from your fell design? can you feel no pity, I do not say for myself, but for that poor creature who is now anxiously awaiting my return, and who never gave you the slightest cause for doing her so frightful an injury?"

"Mr Leigh," Jessie said in a voice of concentrated passion, "what my feelings are toward Alice Folgate concern myself alone. It is a subject which had better not be discussed Adr. Bil





between us, if you wish the armistice to be permanent. I have my reasons for involving her in the same net I throw around you, and those reasons you need not try to discover. It is enough that I hate her, almost as much as I do yourself; so do not try to move me to compassion, or you may render me dangerous."

Of course, Herbert was not disposed to urge this point any further, for he saw a meaning sparkle in Jessie's eyes which warned. him that she would be as true as her word. He, therefore, prepared to leave the room, but suddenly a thought struck him. He had not seen the boy, who caused all this calamity. He was his son after all, and he felt an inclination to look on his features. But Jessie refused point blank.

"I have taken an oath," she replied, "that his father shall never know him nor he his father. He is too like him already, and my earnest hope is to keep him from falling into the same errors, or giving way to the





same passions. You will supply me with the necessary funds to place him at some firstrate school, when the time comes, and nothing must be spared to fit him for that station he is one day to hold. But these are matters that need not concern us now."





Herbert bowed in assent, for what could

he say

in reply to this woman, who was ap-

parently moved by an unbending will, and

whose heart seemed to be iced?



"You will not be surprised, then, to find me knocking at your door to-morrow in broad daylight, and I trust before night to be comfortably installed as waiting-maid on Miss Alice. I think, though, that before long, our positions will be reversed. So, now, go home to your companion, and enjoy the full measures of the happiness I have meted out for you."

And Herbert quitted the house in a whirlpool of sensations, not knowing which way to turn. The horizon was equally black on all

sides and at present he could not imagine



:





what had best be done in the matter. Still, as he felt very miserable, he turned into the first hotel he found open, and drowned his grief in particularly strong brandy and water, which made him reach his house in a state that caused Alice profound alarm. thought he must be ill, and proposed sending for the physician; but, with a half-muttered execration, he threw himself on a sofa in his dressing-room, and fell fast asleep.



She



The curse was already beginning to work. Not once did Alice leave his side during that dreary night, and when he regained his consciousness she felt herself more than repaid by the bitter sorrow he expressed for his conduct. He made some facile excuse about having fallen in with a parcel of bachelor friends, who insisted on his dining with them, and Alice was glad that it was no worse. It was bad enough, though, as a beginning.

But all thoughts of the unpleasant subject were dispelled during the day by the fresh





matter for amazement afforded by Jessie's promised visit. Alice was delighted to see her, for she had always had a great partiality for the girl, and though her presence reminded her of her first great sorrow, the blessed present amply condoned for that. Hence, she was soon prattling away with Jessie about all that had occurred to her, and the strange series of events that had led to her present position.

Jessie's story was told glibly enough: she had married a Mr Wilson and proceeded with him to Australia, where they had lived very happily together, until her husband was carried off by a fever. They had not had opportunity, however, to save any large sum of money, and, when the business was sold off, only enough was left to pay her passage home. Feeling miserable among strangers, her heart had yearned for her Miss Alice, and she had decided on throwing herself on her sympathy. If she would only accept



.





her services as waiting-woman, Jessie declared

that she desired no more.



do



My dear Jessie, I shall be delighted to So, if Mr Gaston consents."

"Oh ! I have no fear of that; suppose you ask him at once, for I long to have matters settled. I am sure he will not refuse so slight a request from you. Ah, Miss Alice, do you remember how I told you long ago that things would come right in the end. You owe me something for my true prophecy."

"Ah, Jessie, but I had a weary trial

before it did happen. Many and

Many and many times I thought I should die before I realized my



happiness, but now



forget all that I only



wish to live for him.



I



But I will go and tell him at once of this strange meeting, and I am sure he will be as pleased as myself.'





"Will he ?" Jessie muttered to herself as her young mistress left the room, and she felt as if she could stab her. All this luxury that surrounded her, all this lavish display of





wealth, ought to be her own, and she had consented to resign it for another. Well, well! revenge is sweet after all! Before long, Alice in her turn would be willing to give up all this luxury, if by doing so she could win back her husband's heart.

In a few moments Alice came flying back with delight in her looks.

Oh, Jessie !" she said, panting from excitement, "Mr Gaston most cordially consents, but he says I am not to consider you in the light of a domestic. We must try and invent

some post for you which will carry no humiliation with it. But he wants to speak with you



in his library.



who will show



There is a footman at the door



you



the way."



Jessie found Herbert looking very haggard from his last night's dissipation and the traces of the storm through which he had so lately passed, and she felt a degree of delight that matters were working so well.





Jessie," he began, "I find that you are





determined on playing out the play in your way. Mrs Gaston is quite willing to accept you as her companion, and of course I can offer no objection. You will be the real mistress of the house, I foresee, and I only hope you will be merciful. Give me time for repentance, that is all I ask; indeed, my whole existence will be a life-long penance."





Enough of this," said Jessie curtly, “I have not come here to bandy words with you. My course is fixed, and it depends on yourself that I do not swerve from it. You are quite right, though, in assuming that I intend to be mistress of this house, and by your proposition of making me companion to Miss Alice you have greatly smoothed my path. I am now going to have the proper deed drawn up in blank, so that you can fill in the names, and when you have signed it we shall become allies in evil."

Jessie was as true as her word: she returned during the evening with her boxes, and





before long found an opportunity to hand the deed to Herbert. He was utterly in her power when he returned it to her.

Within a week they quitted town for the Larches.

I need not stay to describe all the various changes that took place in Herbert during the next few weeks, for my readers can easily understand for themselves, that so impressionable a man as my hero was deeply affected by these fearful events. Jessie had undertaken her odious part con amore: she lavished the most devoted attentions on Alice, and seemed her most humble slave. And yet Alice felt there was a shadow over the house which grew deeper and deeper: her husband was in the habit of shutting himself up in his library, as he said solely on business matters, and when he came out it was generally with a flushed face. But Alice suspected nothing; although she regretted the happy hours when they used to sit together, reading some pleasant book, and then talking over what they had been





perusing, which benefited them both by the new lights they were mutually enabled to throw on the subject, she consoled herself by the reflection that her husband had important business to attend to, which could be no longer delayed, and that it would soon be over.

But this was not the case: Herbert gradually grew extremely fond of society, and there was hardly a day they had not company, or were engaged out to dinner, and Alice to her horror noticed a growing desire for drinking assailing her husband. He, who had always been so temperate, now seemed quite changed: he was beginning to age too perceptibly, and altogether she was becoming very uncomfortable.

When the shooting season arrived, the house was filled with company, among other favoured guests being the Dymokes. Their presence was rather a relief to Alice, for Bertie possessed considerable power over his friend, such as





every strong mind has over a weak one, and in his presence Herbert was ashamed to give way. Bertie, also, noticed the remarkable change that had taken place in him, and in vain tried to draw the cause from him, but Herbert parried his attacks, for he dared not confess the secret sorrow that was gnawing at his vitals. Had he done so, much evil might



have been prevented.



Jessie's great object was to gain her young mistress's confidence and induce her to speak about her husband. If she would but utter one word of complaint, the game would be won. But Alice considered the subject too sacred: whatever her feelings might be, however disappointed she might be when comparing the past and the present, she felt intuitively that no third party must be allowed to interpose between them. Hence, however much Jessie might try to sow the seeds of dissension, she failed in the presence of that virtue which





she would have risked her salvation to sap, and which made her hate Alice more fiercely than ever.





Strangely enough, Jessie was madly jealous of Herbert although she had told him she hated him; but a little thing would have turned the balance in his favour, and more than once she was tempted to propose to him that they should fly together and be happy. When under the influence of these feelings, she detested the woman who stood between her and her possible happiness. What she would have given, could she but once stand alone with her beneath the feathery palms of her Island home! had her skull been placed on the altar, Jessie would have tended it with the greatest care.

Every word of endearment that Alice bestowed on her husband, every loving look she turned upon him, only added to Jessie's rage. She could have torn her in pieces, even if sure to die herself as the penalty but then she would have to resign all hope of Herbert.





These contending emotions were more than she could endure she dwindled away to a shadow, and only the necessity she felt of living in order to torture Alice, endowed her with sufficient strength to carry out her terrible purpose.

Still, she felt that there must be an end of this before long. The duel must terminate in the death of one of the combatants-and if she were sacrificed Herbert must go with her. Never would she allow him to survive her, and regain that happiness which she had so rudely dispelled. Sooner than he should be clasped again in the arms of Alice and breathe hist words of love without fear of the consequences, she would stab him to the heart and herself afterwards.

Herbert, too, was in a frightful state of alarm, for he had reason to believe that the crisis was approaching with giant strides. Alice had recently been unwell, and there seemed only one reason for her illness. At





least Jones, whom he consulted on the matter, heartily congratulated him on the prospect that an heir to the Larches would soon be born.

Under the present state of affairs this would cause the explosion of the bombshell: Jessie would not allow herself to be pacified, no matter what offers he might make her. The contract would be broken, and then gare à lui.

But, stay, might there not be some means to render Jessie harmless? Suppose he were to-, he shuddered at the thought, but before long it did not appear to him so dangerous. The only thing was to find the proper instru



ment.



Chance befriended him.





CHAPTER VI.



JESSIE DISARMED.



THE Gastons had returned to town for the benefit of Alice being near the doctors, as her health was still very delicate, and there were, at present, only suppositions to explain her weakness. Things had begun to go on a little more pleasantly-perhaps the sight of the pining girl and the possibility of her death had aroused Jessie's compassion in some degree



at



any rate Herbert, like an attentive husband, passed a good deal of his time by the side of his wife's sofa, which rendered her perfectly happy again.





One day Herbert was carelessly examining his banker's book, when he fancied he had spent a good deal more money during the past month than usual. He was never very careful in money matters, and it often happened that he purchased some picture that struck his fancy, without much regard to price; but this had not been the case during the past month, for he had hardly left Alice's side.

He therefore began mechanically turning over the cheques, and comparing them with the counterfoils, when he found them representing some three hundred and fifty pounds which were not entered in the cheque book.

As the numbers did not run either in regular rotation, he examined the book more closely, and discovered that six blank cheques had been abstracted. Still, the more he looked at the



handwriting, the more

written the signatures.



certain he felt he had



However, by the aid



of a magnifying glass he detected that the letters had been first traced in faint pencil marks





and then painted over in ink, but it was done so cleverly that he could hardly have sworn he had not written them...

Even when he tried to detect the forged cheques among the parcel of real ones, he found himself mistaken, and hence he naturally conjectured that a gentleman possessing such peculiar talents might be of use to him in the little scheme he proposed for disarming Jessie.

He therefore quietly walked down to his bank and asked the numbers of the notes paid for the last cheque, stating that he had accidentally lost them. He then proceeded to the Bank of England, and found that one of these notes had not come in yet and he then proceeded to call on Inspector Bucket, who, though he had retired from the force, still carried on a system of amature detectivism, and intrusted the matter to his able hands.



:



He was not disappointed in his hopes: before three days had elapsed the detective had found out all about it: the twenty-pound





note had been traced to a sporting-house, where it had been presented in part payment of a bet lost on the Metropolitan by a stout gent who went by the name of Gaston, and was supposed to be a butler in some nobleman's family. Herbert, now feeling sure of his man, summoned his butler, Mr Weston, to his presence, and plunged at once in medias res. "I am sorry to say, Weston, that we have a thief on the premises."

Indeed, sir," Weston replied with well feigned astonishment, and looking under the table, as if he were probably there.

"Oh, no! he is no ordinary thief I allude to," Herbert replied quietly; "the person I refer to has a partiality for blank cheques, and understands the use of tracing-paper."

Weston turned very pale for a moment, but soon recovered his equanimity.

"Fortunately, I have detected him," Herbert went on, "and shall probably hand him over to the police within a quarter of an hour."





"I am delighted to hear that, sir, indeed : it would be a most unpleasant circumstance were suspicion to be divided over all us.'

"Well, I don't know whether you will feel so pleased when I tell you that you are





Weston at once betrayed his guilt by beginning to bluster and threaten his master with the law, but Herbert soon stopped him:

Come, come, my good fellow, none of that nonsense. I have traced the last note you paid away at the Barleymow, endorsed Gaston, and I must say you have imitated my handwriting very cleverly. Now, all that remains for me to do is to hand you over to the police."

All the steel was taken out of Mr Weston by this sudden revelation, and he plumped down on his knees, imploring forgiveness, and pleaded the old sad excuse that he had been led away to bet, and in a moment of great difficulty, seeing his master's cheque book





lying on the table, he had abstracted the six blank cheques, and had imitated his master's handwriting from the cheques he gave him for monthly expenses.

Herbert surveyed his victim for some time gloatingly, and then said:

"You must not try to humbug me in that style: this is not the first time you have been guilty of such a thing, and it will not be the last; a gentleman of your ability does not acquire such talents in a moment. But, come, I do not wish to be harsh with you: you shall sign a confession of your crime, which I will take care of, and hand over the three blank cheques."

Weston saw in a moment that his master wanted something of him, and his confidence returned. He produced the cheques, signed the incriminating document without any hesitation, and then awaited further commands.





Now, then, Weston, as that is so far





settled, it is my turn to demand service for service."

Weston bowed and rubbed his hands as if suspecting some profitable transaction. Herbert then went on :

"For reasons I need not explain I wish that the Marriage Register of Kesterton Church, in Yorkshire, should disappear altogether. In that way the object I have at heart, and which an intimate friend of mine has begged me to arrange for him, will be effected without directing suspicion to any particular quarter."

Weston muttered something about risk and detection, but Herbert interrupted him:





'Pshaw, man, I don't wish you to peril your cowardly carcase at all in the matter. You must know plenty of fellows glad enough to undertake such a job, and all I want is that you should see the book destroyed. I'll give you £250 down, and another £250 on the day you tell me it is done. me it is done. So soon as the book





is in your possession, burn it or sink it, or do what you like with it-I don't care, but it must never rise in evidence again. You understand me? You can take a week's leave to visit your friends in the country, and by that time I expect to hear from you that the matter is settled-what do you say?





"Oh, I see no difficulty in the matter, and will make my arrangements at once.'





Well, then, there's the money: let it be well understood in the house that you are going to see your friends, and be off at once. mind, no drinking, or you may risk all."



But,



The worthy butler pocketed the money and quitted the house within an hour.

"Come!" said Herbert to himself, "I think I have managed that matter very cleverly. He is sure to burn the book without troubling himself to discover why I wanted it destroyed, and then I can bid Jessie defiance.



Good





Within a week Mr Weston returned from his trip, and the change of air had done him decided benefit. He reported progress to his master, and told him that the book was sunk in one of the deep holes in the Lincolnshire fens, where none but the eels would ever see it again. He received the rest of the money, and then, with a grand bow, remarked:

"And now, sir, thanks to your kindness, I am enabled to give up servitude. I have always had a decided 'ponchong' for the turf, and I think of setting up as a sporting gent."





Very well, Weston; only you had better make no more mistakes, else you may meet with somebody less indulgent than myself. If, however, you would like your capital increased, I can put you in the way of another hundred by doing me a further slight service."





Anything to oblige so honourable a gent," Weston remarked, with his best Louis XIV. bow.

"You know where Mrs Wilson sleeps.





Well, she wears round her neck a fish-skin pouch, in which are two documents which I



paper



want in my possession. You will put blank pieces of in their place, and so soon as I have the originals you can go to the devil your own road as fast as you please."

"Really, sir, I am disappointed that you should ask me so simple a matter. We will exhibit a small dose of opium in Mrs Wilson's night beverage, and the matter will be managed as easy as pulling on a Berlin glove."

The worthy Mr Weston was as good as his word: the dose sent Jessie into a profound sleep, and he entered her room while she was unconscious, and possessed himself of the two documents. With these he carefully retired to his pantry, and a glance at them satisfied him as to their importance. Taking down the names in the certificate for his own satisfaction, he proceeded to make a forgery of the important document, by which Herbert recognised Jessie's son as his heir, and the





next day easily palmed it off on his agitated master as the original. Herbert at once burnt it and the certificate, and flattered himself he could now bid defiance to all Jessie's threats.

Little did he suspect how Mr Weston was engaged after leaving his house. He proceeded to inspect the marriage register carefully, and soon found the page from which the marriage certificate had been copied. Tearing this out, he put it aside with the deed of legitimation, and destroyed the rest of the book. He felt himself armed, and allowed events to take their course. At any rate he thus secured a good milch cow for the future.

The explosion Herbert anticipated from Jessie soon took place. The doctors at length announced that Alice was in an interesting condition, and this aroused Jessie to fury. She felt that she was being deceived, and determined on having an explanation with Herbert on the first possible opportunity.

So, Mr Leigh," she said to him with anger





in her looks," you have broken your faith with me, and if you force me into hostilities it will be all your own fault. It was quite understood that the rights of my boy were not to be compromised, and I expected that you would remember of what importance this condition was to all of us. As it is, you must take the consequences."

Really, my dear Jessie, you talk as if you were the master here. Before you attempt to domineer over me you should be quite sure that have it in your power to carry out your threats."



you



"What do you mean? Would you attempt to deny -"

In reply Herbert pushed over to her the supplement of the Times, and drew her attention to an advertisement offering a reward of £100 for the conviction of the person or persons who had abstracted the register of Kesterton Church.

"That is your doing," she said hoarsely;





"but you have over-reached yourself. Do you think I did not keep the copy of my marriage certificate? and the clergyman is still alive to prove his handwriting."

"Do not be quite so sure of that, Jessie. When you drove me to extremities I did not do matters by halves. I knew I had a crafty enemy to deal with, and took my measures accordingly. You had better see if you still have your marriage certificate."





She tore her dress open and produced the letter pouch. A gleam of satisfaction shot across her face as she heard the papers crackle, but it faded away on opening the contents and seeing how thoroughly she had been duped. She was furious, and looked round for a knife to stab him. She was prepared to commit murder.





Villain, doubly-dyed villain," she hissed, "I will be bitterly avenged for this. It is your turn to triumph now, but do not feel too sure of your victory."





ઃઃ



Pooh, pooh, Jessie, it was but plot and counterplot, and I have got the best of the game. It is my turn to impose conditions: now, and if you will only be tranquil, matters: can be arranged very pleasantly. I was obliged to have recourse to these desperate measures, because I was afraid of your passion, but I will be a generous victor. Neither you nor your boy shall ever want for anything, but I will be the judge and decide what had best be done."

Jessie felt broken-hearted; all her skilful combinations were defeated, and she must feign an obedience which she had no intention of keeping. She bowed her head in her hands and wept bitterly.





Come, come, Jessie," Herbert said kindly to her, “let us have no more of this—you are disarmed by stratagem—all is fair in love or war, so we may as well forget and forgive."

"Never! you have now proved yourself a greater villain than I ever fancied you to be,





and I blame myself for being such an idiot in placing such valuable documents in your power. Let me go: I must think over matters: I know not what to do at present, but I will consider. I see I must accept your conditions, and I must throw myself on your generosity. But forgive you I never will; this will rankle in my heart, and if I form some desperate resolve, the consequences will be on yourself."



:



"I am quite prepared for that you can make any exposure you please-and I shall have an answer ready. But one thing I warn you, Jessie—if you show yourself dangerous, there are ways of taming you. Give way to no frantic outburst of rage, if you value your own personal liberty, for I tell you candidly that I will have you confined in a lunatic asylum, and the monomania you will appear to be labouring under will be quite sufficient





bed-room, to brood over her wrongs. To her distempered mind revenge was the one great solace: she must requite her husband, and strike him a desolating blow, which would shatter his happiness at once. But what could she do? almost penniless as she was, she felt that any attempt to obtain justice would fail, and the world would be only too ready to accept Herbert's explanation of an amorous intrigue with a waiting-maid, who now tried to take advantage of his position and extort money from him. She had not a scintilla of evidence against him: he had destroyed every document by which her claim could be supported, and she must throw herself on his charity. Sooner would she kill her boy and herself than submit to such a degradation.

And so she sat for hours on her bed, unable to make up her mind to any decided course of action, and weighing every chance. But all was a blank she could not secure justice by fair means: Herbert had taken his precautions





too well.



Revenge was all that was left her, and that must be of the most terrible charac



ter.



Poor Jessie! she hardly knew which way to turn! she had been shamefully used, there was not the least doubt of it, and revenge was all she desired. But the difficulty was how she should set about humiliating Herbert. If she exposed him to Alice, she had no proofs, and he could easily turn it off as a youthful liaison, for which the world would gladly give him credit. It would be too ridiculous to suppose that the wealthy, the respected Mr Gaston had lowered himself by marriage with a waiting-maid.

For a time Jessie gave way to a fiendish desire to kill Alice, and so secure her revenge. And, mind you, she was quite capable of any crime at this dangerous moment. She had been trampled on, deluded, and insulted, and when she saw that Alice was happy in her ignorance, the thought almost maddened her.





I am sorry to say that Jessie for a season was a murderess in her heart.





But there was a way of killing her mistress as effectual as steel or poison: let but Jessie lay before her the proofs of her husband's guilt, and Alice would surely pine away and die! The very consciousness that she had been living in a state of sin would be sufficient to crush her gentle spirit. So Jessie dismissed the thought of murder, or rather hung up the weapon in her armoury, to be taken down again if all other schemes failed.

Jessie could not make up her mind that Herbert had really destroyed the incriminating papers. She knew him so thoroughly as to feel assured that he would hesitate ere taking the final plunge, and compromise with his conscience by keeping the documents in abeyance. He had frequently asked after her boy, and though the thought that his Alice was about to bear him a child had made him





cooler about little Herbert, he had not quite forgotten him.

But Jessie, in judging of her husband, did not take into calculation the difference between now and then. When she had known him, he had no temptation to be a villain, and her strong mind had kept him on the right road. During the years of her absence, however, he had greatly changed, and was not at all disposed to sacrifice the luxury in which he lived, and which had become a part of his nature. We have seen the clever way in which he had schemed against Jessie, and he was prepared to carry matters to any extremity.



.



For the present, then, Jessie determined to bide her time, and discover, if possible, where he kept the documents. Revenged she would be, if it cost her her life, and he must be wounded in the most vital part. The only difficulty was how she was to begin her in





quiries after the missing papers. however, greatly befriended her..



Chance,



It happened that the ex-butler had cast favourable glances on his young mistress' companion, and was much disposed to make her his wife. The knowledge he had attained of her real position did not at all choke him off from his design, for with the papers and the woman in his possession he could keep a tight hold on his late master.

Besides, matters were not going so smoothly with him on the turf as he had anticipated: though he might be sharp himself, he soon came across sharpers, and it was high time for him to settle comfortably in life. Regarding Mrs Wilson, then, in the light of an annuity, he wrote to offer her his hand and heart, and dropped more than one mysterious hint as to what he could do with her aid.





A light flashed across Jessie's mind at once, and she made up her mind to fool the man to the top of his bent, and find out what





stances.



and how much he really knew of the circumBut to do this she must give up her present situation, and it was difficult for her to find an excuse which would satisfy Alice.

Fortunately for Jessie, Herbert came to her assistance in the matter: he was growing more and more alarmed lest their secret might be discovered; Harriette had written him a most suggestive letter, which he had temporarily evaded by telling the old story about his wife having perished in the Ramchunder, and as she was better known as Mrs Wilson, that would put Harriette off the scent. But he felt that he was living over a powder magazine which circumstances might explode at any moment. He saw, in fact, that his secret was in imminent danger of detection, and the only chance of escape was by inducing Jessie to quit the country. He, therefore, soon made the proposal to her.





!



'Jessie," he said to her, "there are several

reasons which would make me more com





fortable in mind if you would be induced to leave the country. I am nervous lest anybody should recognise you, and her old Ladyship has proposed a visit which I have declined; but there is no certainty but that she might take us by storm some day, and as she is the only person now living conscious of our old engagement, your presence here might lead to unpleasant surmises. I should, therefore, wish you to go abroad. I do not care where to, and I shall be very happy to allow you a thousand for your support."



a year



Much to his surprise Jessie accepted the proposition calmly.

"I am entirely in your power, Mr Gaston, and I must therefore thank you for your very liberal offer. As you wish it I will return to Australia, and will leave it to you to do justice to our boy."

"Be assured of that, Jessie," he said kindly, "it is better for all our sakes that we should

part. But stay, you must have money to





provide your outfit-here are five hundred pounds and I will pay your annuity at any place you may appoint."

Within two days Jessie was in lodgings at

Gerrard Street, and her first business was to write a note to Mr Weston, saying she would be glad to see him directly.





CHAPTER VII.



CLOSING IN.



She



ALICE, like Calypso, would not be comforted at the loss of her faithful handmaiden. had always loved Jessie sincerely, and had latterly grown to regard her more as a sister than an attendant. Hence she thought it the height of unkindness on her part for her to leave her. The excuse she gave was certainly plausible enough: her boy was ill, and she must go to nurse him; yet why could she not have had him into the house? it was really unkind of her, Alice thought: for, though she promised to return as soon as she could, Alice





was now growing petulant and whimsical, and could not endure any of her fancies to be thwarted.

Herbert, on the contrary, seemed quite to brighten up at the absence of the fair waitingmaid, and paid most devoted attention to his wife. Unfortunately, though, he could not be all to her that Jessie was, and though Alice after a time recovered from the shock of the separation, the house was dull to her without Jessie.

But Herbert had an enemy to cope with who never slumbered. Harriette had seen the advertisement for the missing register in the Times, and her half-lulled suspicions had been again aroused. Hence, without giving any notice of her intentions, she came to London, and placed herself in the first instance in communication with Gerald.

That gentleman had gradually gone from bad to worse: his irresistible passion for play had broken out again on receiving the money





Blanche had left him, and it seemed as if everything connected with her produced misfortune. Herbert's purse was almost entirely closed against him, and, as he was a gamester, he was necessarily selfish, and, forgetting the past, detested Herbert now because he would do no more for him. He was just in a proper temper, then, to profit by Harriette's half-veiled hints, and eagerly grasped at the chance of getting a hold on Herbert. He was gradually descending to the same level as Mr Weston.

After all, though, Harriette's surmises were based on mere conjecture; it was quite true that Herbert had married Jessie Meadows, but her death was notorious. They could do nothing after all. It was true that the abstraction of the marriage-register from the church where they had been united was a suspicious circumstance, but Gerald did not like to expend any large sum on a chance, for money was scarce with him. At this moment Harriette put a check to his hesitations, by pro





ducing a hundred and fifty pounds which she had saved, and he consented to humour her fancy and call in Mr Traill the detective to their counsels, and, I am sorry to say, managed to net twenty-five pounds by the transaction.



He



Mr Traill was a very elevated man in his way, and could see further through a Parmesan cheese than the majority of his fellows. had one great rule of faith, that everybody was a rogue till he was detected, and it was surprising how true his theory was. He sat with the patience of a Stoic while Harriette laid before him all her doubts, and with his finger laid sagaciously on his nose seemed to docket all the evidence and lay it by carefully in various pigeon-holes of his mind. Thus when Gerald began expressing his doubts as to the tangibility of what was laid before him, he sagely remarked:

"I don't exactly see that, Mr Folgate. Crimes are never committed without a motive, and this marriage-register would not have been





stolen unless somebody benefited by it. You say that this Mr Gaston married one Jessie Meadows in the name of Leigh, and that she perished at sea. Query-who saw her die ?"

This was a new way of putting the argument, and Gerald began listening to the sage's remarks more attentively.

Now, my private impression is--I look toward you sir, and madam," he remarked parenthetically, as he took a huge swig of brandy and water, "that this Jessie Meadows is not dead, but that there is some mystery connected with the affair. The best thing to be done is that Mr Folgate and myself should down to Yorkshire, and see if we can trace the thieves. There will be no harm done if we discover nothing, while we shall not have to regret that we have omitted anything which might help to a discovery."



go



The proposition was so reasonable, that Gerald could not refuse, and by that night's mail train they proceeded to Yorkshire.





The express shot them out at their destination by four in the morning, and within half an hour Mr Traill had reached the police-station, after sending Gerald off to the best hotel in the town, and bidding him make no move till he came to him.

Equally surprising was the effect he produced on the rural police by his presence and self-introduction, for they justly regarded it as a compliment. Plenty of detectives had sniffed round the glittering bait, but they were nobodies. Here, however, was Mr Traill himself, hand in glove, so to speak, with all the London magistrates and the fleur de poix of Scotland Yard, come all the way to their town to investigate the matter of the marriage register.

"I was coming down this way on a matter of business," he said affably to the superintendent as they sat enjoying their coffee, "and I thought I might as well call in and hear if you had found out anything about that business."





And, in lieu of explaining his meaning, Mr Traill merely pointed to the huge poster on the wall.



cr



"No, I am sorry to say, and we have been awfully laughed at surely. But what could we do against a parcel of London thieves? Why, I believe there was four on 'em."

Indeed, and have you any idea what they looked like ?"

"Why, yes, after the affair was over one of my men gave me the description of four persons he saw, and strangers to him, drinking the night before at the Blue Ox, but no one seems to recognise any of 'em."





Hand the document here," said Mr Traill promptly.

He read it carefully through, and laid his fingers thoughtfully to his nose. Evidently one of those men was known to him, by the description at any rate.

"And in the vestry this bit of paper was





found, thrown away after lighting a dark lanthorn as it seems."

And the Superintendent produced a piece of envelope half burnt away, bearing the following remnants of writing:



on



n Esqu

on Street.



ia.



"Phew!" he whistled to himself, "here's a go-it's all as plain as print. This note was addressed to somebody whose name ends in on, living with Gaston, Esqr., Palmerston St., Belgravia. So far so good. . I say, superintendent,” he added, aloud, “you 'll have no objection leaving me this piece of paper, not that it's of any use-but I have a fancy for those things."

"Oh! certainly, Mr Traill, with pleasure, we've shown it to a good many persons, but they did not make anything out of it."

"I dare say not, there's not much in it, is there?"





"Well! I can't see much."

"That's because you hav 'nt learned hieroglyphics. But I'll make a bet that I have the

man who stole the marriage register before this day week.





"Lor!"



"Fact!"



The superintendent gazed with admiration on the man who spoke so confidently of his powers of discernment, and looked eagerly at Mr Traill as if to convince himself that he was not being humbugged, but that gentleman sat serenely munching a huge lump of bread and butter, and only wagged his head with oracular gravity.

After concluding his meal, the detective re-. turned to Gerald, and without mentioning anything about his discovery told him he had better call on the clergyman, and see whether he knew anything about the circumstances of the marriage to which so much interest now attached. But unfortunately he had only been





recently appointed to the living, and could not at all account for the robbery of the register.

Mr Traill, however, knew enough, and returned to town with two great points as further subject of inquiry. He had to discover who the gent was that resided at Mr Gaston's, and whose name ended in on, and if that did not avail him he must look up the individual whose description appeared so familiar to him. However, he had no particular desire to undertake the second part of the transaction if the first were successful.

Certainly, he had but slight indicia to work upon; nothing served to prove that the piece of envelope really came from any one residing in Mr Gaston's house, and his foregone conclusions alone led him to form that opinion; but whenever was a detective. wrong in his suspicions?

Very cautiously, then, did he work his way in the vicinity of Mr Gaston's house, and before long he acquired the certainty that a per





son of the name of Weston had recently left that gentleman's service rather suddenly. The suspicions ripened into certainty when Mr Traill found the description tally so closely with one of the four described by the rural policeman, a fine, portly man.

He searched his memory in vain, though, to discover among his numerous criminal acquaintances who this person might be, but detectives have peculiar means at their command to discover any secret they desire, and within a very short time he had found out that there was a Mr Weston, whom no one knew anything particular about, who had recently set up as a sportsman, and could be seen any Sunday afternoon at Tattersall's.

To that celebrated spot, then, Mr Traill proceeded, and his practised eye selected Mr Weston at once.

And, now, my friend," he said to himself, "it is a trial of strength between us two, and





the deuce is in it if I do not get the best of you."



:



From that moment Mr Weston, though perfectly unaware of the fact, had a second shadow following him his movements were carefully reported to Mr Traill, but for some time there was nothing suspicious about them. The sum and substance of the report was that the gentleman in question lived like most other sporting gents, and was in the habit of visiting once a week a widow lady of the name of Wilson, who lived on the second floor of a house in Gerrard Street, Soho.

Not the slightest hint was ever thrown away on Mr Traill, and therefore before long he learned that this Mrs Wilson had resided with Mrs Gaston, and left the family a few weeks back. Any common-minded man would have assumed that love-passages had passed between the steward and the companion, and that they were, probably, about to be married,





but not so Mr Traill. He would always persist in seeing some hidden motive for the most trivial purposes, and was determined on knowing what the couple were talking about. Hence taking advantage of a room being to let in the house, Monsieur Razotin, Professor of Languages, soon became a tenant in that menagerie where Jessie had taken up her quarters. The most important part of his luggage was certainly a pair of list shoes and a gimlet.

Mr Weston had been a pretty constant visitor to Jessie, and had been making considerable love to her, which the poor woman had suffered with a certain degree of loathing. Still, she had gained one great point: Mr Weston was in possession of the papers she needed to feed fat her revenge, and her great object was to obtain them.

Now Weston was in an awkward fix: he had by this time run out of every shilling he possessed, and, though he had a strong inclination to make Jessie his own, she had so clearly





shown him that, if they were to be married, they would put a dangerous weapon in Mr Gaston's hands, by means of which he might defy them, that he had reluctantly consented to surrender the papers to her for £400, and take his chance of terrifying his late master out of any further sums.

The difficulty he was in was, that he could not denounce his master as a bigamist for fear he might reveal the awkward circumstances connected with the abstraction of the marriage register, for Weston was not of opinion that there was honour among thieves. He, therefore, made his mind to sell Jessie the papers, of



up



which he kept copies, and be off to America, where he could work his little scheme in perfect safety. Hence, then, he said to Jessie, after well-feigned hesitation :

"Here are the documents," as he produced them from his breast pocket, the bargain is a bad one for me, I confess, for I lose you (here Jessie shuddered involuntarily), but I fancy





that £400 would be the figure. A hundred a piece for the documents, and one hundred for the severe loss I undergo."

"If you will call to-morrow, Mr Weston, then I will give you the money. I have to go into the city in the morning to procure change for a cheque, and I shall be ready for you at two o'clock, if you will have the kindness to come at that time."

Few words more passed ere Mr Weston quitted the room and walked down the street full of pleasant thoughts. The more he thought of his bargain the more pleased he was: he saved himself any unpleasantness, and could put a waste of waters between himself and the man he had employed in the register business, and who had lately become troublesome for more money. His meditations were, however, interrupted by an arm being affectionately passed through his own, and a voice exclaiming :





Confound it, what a rate you do walk at! I thought I should never catch you up."





'And who are you, I should like to know? Mr Weston said superciliously, noticing in the gaslight that the stranger wore a very shabby hat, and might be safely bullied. "Oh, you know me well enough."

"I really have n't that honour," said Mr Weston in his loftiest accents.

"Pooh, nonsense, man, everybody knows me, -why, I'm Traill, the detective, and want to have a talk with you confidentially about that register business down in Yorkshire. Ah, you managed it beautifully. You've given me a terrible job to find you out, and I don't think I should, if you had n't got Long Bill to help you.' Mr Weston's thoughts decidedly grew unpleasant that fellow had really betrayed him then; but, after all, there was no evidence against him, save that of a participator in the crime. As long as he secured the eminent



:





services of Serjeant Kite to defend him he would be sure to get off.

Mr Traill read all his thoughts at a glance, and soon put a check to his meditations.

"Now, look here, Weston, I know all about it-you were employed by Mr Gaston to do that little job; and, as I said before, very neatly you did it; but you might have robbed a dozen churches without my walking down the street to take you. I know too you are aware how matters stand with him-no, you must n't be feeling for your pocket-book

that's all safe-but don't you think it will be better for you to split all you know and get off easily, than make me tell the judge, to my great regret, that you are Jack Somers, returned from transportation before your time had expired?





The baffled villain muttered a savage curse, and tried to break away, but it was of no avail. "Now, Jack, don't be foolish," the impertur bable detective went on; "if you come those





tricks, I shall have to put the handcuffs on, and that would be unkind to an old friend. Lord bless you, I knew you again directly I saw you at Tatt's, but I was n't a-going to spoil sport-you had n't ought to use such precious bad staining liquid—any one could see with half an eye that your whiskers ought to be bright red, and they don't suit a black head of hair."

And with this pleasant philosophy, Mr Traill strove to enliven his prisoner, as he walked with him toward Marlboro' Street.

"Now, is it a bargain?" he said, as they reached the corner of Poland street, linked armin-arm; "you give me those two dockyments you showed Mrs Leigh, here under the lamppost, and I'll not split about the other matter."

Weston seemed undecided for a moment, but Traill looked at him so piercingly that he almost immediately made up his mind.

Look ye, Jack, when you 're searched at the station, it will be my painful dooty to





explain all I know about those papers, and they will be used in evidence against you. Give them over to me, and I'll consent to strain a point."

"Will you let me go, Mr Traill, if I give them to you?"

For a moment, the detective appeared to yield to a motive of compassion, and his grasp on his friend's arm slightly relaxed. Then he said, thoughtfully-"Is there a hundred pound note along with those documents?





"No," his prisoner sorrowfully replied. "Can't do it at the price then!" he said, shaking his head; "but come along, give me those papers, and I will do all I can for you. I am afraid I shall have to convict you for stealing the register, but I'll let you off easily."

Weston handed over the papers, which the detective examined carefully and pouched; then he said as he walked along,

Now, I don't mind telling you that you



are a precious fool."





"Why so?" said Weston in considerable



alarm.





Oh, you'll find out soon enough," was the

reply as they entered the station.

Half an hour later, the ex-butler heard the bolts crunching in their sockets, and he felt most peculiarly uncomfortable at Mr Traill's last allusion.

Still, the more he thought over the matter, the more Mr Weston felt convinced that he should get off easily. He had his master on the hip, and would drag him down with him. But where were the proofs ?--the thought struck him at the moment. He had parted with them at the time they would have availed him most! That, then, was Traill's meaning!—oh, he could see it all plainly; he was to be sacrificed, and the detective would reap all the profit. Thrice sodden fool he must have been to fall into the trap so easily.

After all, he thought it would avail him but little to denounce Mr Gaston, for he had not





a scintilla of proof. That very night he had determined on copying the documents before handing them over to Jessie, and now it was too late. Nor had he any prospect that she would come forward, for he had formed an idea that she intended to employ the papers for the purpose of intimidation.

All at once a gleam of hope flashed across his mind: it was possible that Trail had been acting all the while on behalf of Mr Gaston. Oh yes! it must be so! the more he thought of it, the more convinced he felt. All would come right yet, he was confident, and he therefore laid himself down to sleep on the hard bench, just as if he were the most innocent criminal in the world.

Just about this time Mr Traill was also retiring to his couch, after rubbing his hands most complacently, and congratulating himself on the good night's work he had done.





CHAPTER VIII.



DOWN WHITECHAPEL WAY.



MR TRAILL'S great mind was not yet satisfied, for, although he was now in a fair way of convicting Herbert of bigamy, he did not like losing the hundred pounds offered as a reward for the apprehension of the culprits connected with the register business. He therefore, duly weighed the evidence against Mr Weston, and appreciated the fact that there was not enough to ensure conviction, without which process he could not call the reward his own. Hence he was obliged reluctantly to decide on nabbing





"Lanky Bill," whose whereabouts he shrewd



ly suspected.



The idea also occurred to Mr Traill that so crafty a rogue as Mr Weston would not have destroyed the volume which would act as so powerful a lever on the rich sharer in his crime. His knowledge of human nature taught him that villains of the butler's calibre cannot be urged to crime by their superiors in social position, without the latter being seriously compromised, and he shrewdly suspected that his prisoner had not destroyed the book, but held it in terrorem over Herbert.

This, as we know, was in so far wrong, that Weston had destroyed the entire volume, with the exception of the page on which his master's marriage was inscribed. This he had kept from Jessie's knowledge, and held it as it were in reserve, in the expectation that, if Herbert were acquitted by Jessie's agency, he should still be able to keep the screw on





him. Unfortunately for his plans, the detective had quite foiled him, and he hugged the thought that when his imprisonment were over, he would still be enabled to raise money by means of this damning page. The game would then be in his hands: he would have undergone his punishment, and, by taking care not to incriminate Herbert at present, he could, thenceforward, employ him like a milch cow. conch

All this had occurred to Mr Traill too, and so soon as he had settled matters with the magistrate, and obtained a remand for his prisoner, he proceeded to that gentleman's lodgings for the purpose of overhauling his and papers a traps, and proving the truth of his suspicions. In this, however, the acute detective was foiled, for, on astounding Weston's landlady









by the intelligence that her exemplary lodger was in custody for a heinous offence, he discovered to his great annoyance that somebody had been beforehand with him. A





note had been handed the old lady at an early hour that morning by a gent, in which she was requested to allow the bearer to pack up a few things and bring them to her lodger, as he had been arrested for debt, and required change of clothing.

Had Mr Traill been a French scholar, he would have ejaculated, tu l'as voulu, Georges Dandin, tu l'as voulu as it was, he merely took a cursory glance at the effects left in the room, satisfied himself that the party, whom the description left no doubt on his mind was Lanky Bill, had effected a complete razzia of all criminating papers, and then walked down the street again, gently whistling his favourite tune. Then he seated himself on the roof of a Whitechapel buss and smoked a meditative cloud, exchanging polite nods, as he went along, with the most celebrated members of the Swell Mob, who crossed his angle of vision.

After the usual delays, which he regarded





with the utmost serenity of mind, just as if they formed part of his daily penance, Mr Traill descended from the knife-board, and soon found himself holding conference with the superintendent of the district police. Several members of the band were called in and questioned; and, after making a few observations which were listened to with the utmost respect, Mr Traill devoted a few leisure hours to the vicinity of the Bank, pointed out to the attention of the police several West-end thieves, whom business had called to that part of the world,-enjoyed a very consoling dinner, and found himself walking toward Spitalfields as the clock struck eight.

With the greatest equanimity Mr Traill walked along the most cut-throat looking streets, passing crowds of professional gentlemen of the highway, distinguished for robbing elderly ladies of their purses in open daylight; but they were no concern of his just at present. At length, he entered a





narrow lane in the heart of the colony, and stopped before the Blue Anchor. Ford wide

During the last five minutes of his peregrinations, Mr Traill had looked carefully about him in every alley a policeman was ensconced, who made him a mystic sign, to which he politely responded, and he went on his way rejoicing. He had two hundred powerful men within sound of his whistle, and so soon as he entered the sacred doors of the hostelry every outlet was mysteriously occupied. Had it been necessary, he could have carried off every man in the house. But that was not his game: so long as he caught the identical man he wanted, the rest could go for the present, sure of being found when required.





So far satisfied, Mr Traill walked in to the





the house, careless nod to the host,

who loomed a burly effigy in the bar, and walked toward a swing door, which he suddenly threw back and found himself in the





presence of some eighty of the most desper ate ruffians even this prolific metropolis can produce.ih obro. I

It was a low, narrow room, much like the Down the centre ran a



cabin of a ship.



table, on either side of which were seated the guests smoking and drinking.



As Mr Traill



leant his brawny back against the door, he chuckled with contempt at the consternation his presence produced.

I was once witness of such a scene as I attempt to describe, and nothing struck me so forcibly as the unequal terms on which our thieves fight. The impression produced on me by the inspection of some hundred of the biggest ruffians London produces, was that robbery is a most unprofitable trade. Physically, they are nowhere: they look gaunt and emaciated, except those who have just given up prison fare; and it seems as if one sturdy arm would clear a room.brary-didder evolitud

Here and there, a big burly ruffian might





be noticed, but I was armed by the presence of a celebrated detective and had nought to fear.

With all their cunning, London thieves are no match for the police: they resemble the fox, which, after a run of twenty miles escaping, will be found the next day within a yard of the spot whence the dogs had driven it. They always flock to certain haunts, and hence a detective has not the slightest difficulty in unearthing any man who may be wanted. Our magnificent police system enables any man being run down whose presence is required, and the only wonder is, that with such splendid mechanism at command, more is not done to prevent the commission of crime, rather than insure its punishment when perpetrated. But such is human nature.

Mr Traill's appearance, as he carelessly. leaned against the door, produced a sensation akin to that of a ferret winding its way into a harmless rabbit-warren, but he soon restored confidence by his smiling remark:





"Good evening, gents all, I've merely called to see a friend of mine, Long Bill, with whom I want a word."

Never was such a chaos of sounds heard, as when the thieves began avowing to their favourite oath of "send I may live" that they had n't clapped eyes on him for the last fortnight. Mr Traill waved his hand deprecatingly, and they were all as silent as mice.





Long Bill was seen to come in here about half after five, and he has n't left since. Now, gents, I don't want to do anything unhandsome, but I see two or three in this pleasant party whom I shall be obliged to take, unless I have an opportunity of a minute's conversation with my friend."

There was a moment of startled silence, till an elderly man remarked:

"What's the use of trying to humbug you?" (Mr Traill gave a superb nod of adhesion to this sentiment and called for a go of whiskey! hot). "Long Bill is here, but he's gone to





bed



up there, and, if you want to see him, you can go up. ll good ontur 10 baohl s ous of

Most impertinent was the glance which accompanied Mr Traill's next remark. ovo

"I tell you what it is, my fine fellow, you'll

make me take you against my will. I had no desire to disturb the harmony of the evening, but, if you will have it, why-" TM

And Mr Traill produced a whistle he wore round his neck and applied it to his lips. I

"For Lord's sake don't, Mr Traill," the landlord eagerly interposed," you'll bring my house into a bad name. I'll go and fetch him down at once."bitdo od Hude I mody Whise

Very Olympian was the gaze the detective cast around him. As he surveyed the baffled thieves and they shrunk into corners as they noticed his cold grey eye scrutinizing them, he said: dmund of quivi lo sen oild and 77 o" God's my truth, it's a perfect insult, and I've a good mind to nail the whole swag. I can read your thoughts; you fancied you'd





get me up-stairs and bolt while I was gone. But you shan't escape so easily here, you Jem Flathers, come out of that, come-you 've brought it on yourselves, and I will have an example."soul of ** yl vienohol Dine sviluotch





And Jem Flathers, a huge, powerful ruffian, came cringing to Mr Traill's feet like a whipped dog. ensligor y lo Nuo om ob of qu "You were in that robbery over the water you had seven shots in your leg, when you broke into the house at Notting-hill-you passed five bad half-crowns during the last week-you eased an old lady of seven-punten only yesterday. York, you're wanted."

Grimly did Mr Traill survey the culprit who cowered at his feet-then he majestically said, no dilge end zool

"Go up and fetch Long Bill, and tell him it's no use trying to escape over the roofs. I have scouts all round, and it will be best for him to give in at once.'ndir wolle zid to noisedlnos Timidly the poor brute ascended the stairs,





and within five minutes he returned, bringing with him the gentleman whose acquaintance Mr Traill desired so much to renew.

"You are a pretty sort, I don't think,” the detective said furiously, "to dare and try to interfere with my prerogatives; who gave you authority to pack up Jack Somers' traps, and try to do me out of my regulars?"

The poor cowering wretch said not a word. He looked round at his pals, as if seeking their support, but they knew too well the powers of the individual who stood boldly confronting them.



૮



Now, I tell



you what it is, Long Bill, I've a deuced great mind to transport you, but I'll give you a chance, out of pure goodnature. Jack has split on you, or else I should n't have been here now-"

A hoarse growl of dissatisfaction ran through the room. That a man should be taken on the confession of his fellow criminal was atrocious.





What would thus become of the old adage,

"honour among thieves ?"

This slight remark wonderfully aided Mr Traill's purpose, for Long Bill vociferously demanded to be heard in his turn. Producing from his pocket a packet of papers, he handed them to the detective, stating that these were all the valuables he had found among the swag. The clothes, &c., had long ago been melted, and Mr Traill quite believed him.

"I'll trouble you, Mr Bill, for the trifle of money the swag produced," he said, with the calmness of a stoic.

Long Bill was obliged to confess with a sob that his fancy lady had already carried that off.

"Where is she?" said Mr Traill with



sudden energy·



"Gone to the Britannia with a guardsman from the Tower, as soon as she raised the blunt," was Bill's sorrowful reply.





"Ugh!" was all that Mr Traill replied, as he clinked the handcuffs on his new prisoner.

And thus, in the presence of some sixty or seventy determined men, one individual, strengthened by the ubiquitous power of the law, was enabled to bid them all defiance. Never was a more triumphant vindication of our admirable police system. aldashur edi II

Mr Traill had the matter now in his own hands: among the papers Long Bill handed to him, was the leaf torn from the marriage register, on which poor Weston had built so much, and he felt himself master of the situation. Before long he had so worked on Long Bill that he denounced the other two accomplices, and Mr Traill felt secure of his hundred pounds af bina Coils of ored W He was n't such a fool after all. yrons nobbie Mr Traill was triumphant, and like a worthy Briton determined to carry his valuable wares to market. His first visit was paid to Gerald, in whose service he was, but it was with many





a shake of his head, for he had a strong idea that Herbert would be a far better paymaster. But, like Dugald Dalgetty, he was staunch to the master who employed him for the time, and therefore proceeded straight to Gerald and laid the documents before him. Hovor

Gerald was in a most awkward position, for Mrs Brien had died the very week before, and, as he expected, had not left him a shilling. Mr Brien, by his persuasive powers, had secured the bulk of her fortune, but she had left Harriette a thousand pounds.

Gerald hardly knew what to do: he would gladly have punished Herbert for the insult he had put on the family, but the fatal sum he owed him weighed upon him. The only chance



of



escape he saw was by holding the threat of punishment over him, and thus serving himself. He therefore begged Mr Traill to hand him over the papers, but to that the worthy gentleman demurred, for he did not see his way clearly.de hisd ottoiran H es foot of





At this decisive moment Harriette ran to the rescue her object was to be revenged on Herbert, and she cared not what sacrifice she made. But this was not Gerald's plan by any means lost to all better feelings, he wished to prey on Herbert, and make what he could out of him, so as to satisfy his passion for play. He hated him fiercely, I grant, for marrying Alice while his wife was alive, but this feeling was secondary. He thought that he might yet take a more exquisite revenge. Hence he was very sorry to see the papers in Harriette's possession, but he could not help himself.

As for Mr Traill, he gladly accepted her offer of five hundred pounds for the papers, and with equal readiness consented to hush up the whole affair. The next time Weston was brought up, he was discharged for want of sufficient evidence, while "Lanky Bill" was proved a participator in various robberies and soon left his country for his country's good.

So soon as Harriette held the papers, a dire





struggle went on in her mind between avarice



and revenge.



She saw that she could compel

Herbert to settle a magnificent allowance upon her, but that was not enough. It was her cruel destiny to hate every one of her relatives. who was more successful in the world than herself, and she now detested Alice with the concentrated fury she had once settled on Blanche-merely because she had succeeded in marrying Herbert. In a word, she was a woman, and decided on having her vengeance, which is the sweetest of all feminine sions.



pas



A hint from Mr Traill put her on the right clue, and the next day after she had arranged her business she quietly walked to Gerrard Street.

Jessie had been in a state of serious alarm owing to the non-appearance of Mr Weston. She began to think that he had played her false and sold the papers to Herbert. She was fretting terribly her revenge seemed



:





to be torn from her grasp at the moment of fruition. She was growing dangerous, and the wildest thoughts coursed through her brain. She was prepared to dare everything, so that Herbert should not triumph. Paab forros

What was her surprise, then, when Harriette walked smilingly into her room and said, as she extended her silken dress on the sofa,com bad ode nemmend

"My dear Jessie! how truly glad I am to see you. I heard you were living here, and hastened to call on you. And is that your darling boy? what a wondrous likeness to his father!" rod doe Buck god daid A

Je Jessie drew a deep breath

ally, she intuitively felt.up of



she had an

arociand roll



"My poor dear girl," Harriette continued in her bitter-sweet voice, "I know all the wrongs you have endured, and I have it in my power to help you, if you are prepared to aid me."

Docross sprovos mil vidiet seilteft ant





"I?" Jessie said, startling from her chair in excitement; "only give me the chance, and I will show you what I will do. Anything you please, make any stipulations, and if I can only see my boy righted, I care not what becomes of Herbert-or myself."

Harriette gloated in delight over the girl who so openly showed her cards. Still, she was not quite certain yet, so she refrained for the time.



your



"Supposing, my girl, that I put it in power to prove your marriage: what would you do to punish your recreant husband?"





Punish him?" Jessie said with a wierd flashing of her eyes; "I know how to punish him most vitally."

"What! accuse him publicly of bigamy? "No!" Jessie shrieked, "I shall torture him worse than that, I will compel his wife to quit him. I know Miss Alice so well, that if I can prove his guilt she will leave him on






the moment-even if it kill her," she added



moodily.

Harriette's

the papers.



eyes flashed fire as she produced



Here, then, are the documents. I intrust them to you, and hope that you will allow no weakness to overpower you. You are now enabled to punish him in what way you please; and I think," she added, with a ghastly laugh, "that you will not spare him."

By Heavens, no!" Jessie said, as the thought of all her wrongs came across her mind, "he shall no longer live so happily as he has done for the last few weeks," and here she passionately kissed the papers. "I have made up my mind what course I will pursue, though I feel sorry for Miss Alice; but I can only strike him through her. She must be the victim, poor creature, for my son's rights must be guarded."

"Foolish girl, you know not what you are talking about. Mrs Gaston is now near the





point of her confinement, and before the week is out your son may be deprived of his legitimate rights."



tr



"Ah!" Jessie hissed, "it has come, then. Herbert, Herbert, you have brought it on yourself,my mind is made up."

And she clutched her boy to her breast and covered him with passionate kisses.

All this time Harriette sat enjoying the scene. It was balm to her ulcered heart, and she sat watching her tool with looks of satisfaction.

"I have given you the necessary documents," she said coolly, "and I leave it to you to do the rest. I will not pretend to give you any advice as to the course you should pursue, but I feel convinced that you will not let Mr Gaston off too easily."

Jessie clutched her hand frantically as she said, "Leave that to me. I shall be avenged in such a way that Herbert will never forget it."

Harriette really felt happy, there was a





prospect of her revenge being satiated, and for that she lived. Her only fear was lest Jessie should display any weakness, but a glance at her sparkling eyes encouraged her. For the moment, at any rate, Jessie was determined-there could be no doubt of it. Unfortunately, Mrs Gaston's confinement would prevent the dénouement for the present, and Harriette was anxious to have the matter settled at once.

She expressed her doubts to Jessie, but that young lady easily appeased her fears by stating that she had the entrée of the house moment. Miss Alice would be only too glad to see her again, but Jessie had a reluctance to employ any desperate efforts at the time of Alice's confinement to bed.



at any moment.



Harriette was too clever to urge on a willing horse, for she could read in Jessie's eyes the determined purpose that lurked in them, and she was quite ready to bide her time. Jessie was quite willing to carry out her plans, Alice





would be driven away from her home, and Herbert remain still in her power, and that was something, Harriette had quite made her mind that whoever suffered, she would not be a loser.



up



Hence she quitted Jessie full of hope; but had she seen my heroine a few minutes later. she would have regretted intrusting the papers in her hands. Jessie sat with her head bedded in her hands thinking deeply. She could not endure the thought, when the moment arrived, of confounding the innocent with the guilty, and yet she had bitter wrongs to avenge.

But the sight of her boy sleeping in his cot aroused her again; she made up her mind that she would secure his rights, no matter at what sacrifice. He was Herbert's first-bornhe was the heir to the Larches. Why should she resign his claims on behalf of the young intruder, who was now, perhaps, coming into the world-a Jacob who was to rob his brother Esau of his mess of pottage?





These thoughts confirmed Jessie in her purpose. She felt that destiny had selected her to play the part of the Juggernauth's car which was to trample on Herbert's felicity, and she proceeded on her task with the stoicism of a Brahmin widow. No matter if she sacrificed herself, so long as she had her revenge.





HERBERT had begun to grow tolerably comfortable again, when he found that his iniquitous plans were in a fair way of being carried out. It was quite evident, he thought to himself, that Jessie had yielded to the inevitable, and was ready to give up the struggle, and prevent their dangerous secret from being discovered.

At times, I grant, he thought of his eldest son, and of the sacrifice he was inflicting on that innocent victim of his wrong-doing; but the reflection of his approaching paternity consoled him. After all, it was better that the boy should





never recover his rights; the son of a maidservant was not the fitting heir to such an estate as the Larches. And then, if I may use the expression, he shunted the unpleasant idea off the track of his daily life, and soon began to forget all disagreeables. The only thing that alarmed him was that he had not heard from Jessie as to when she wished to have her annuity paid, but he presumed that she considered the money he had given her sufficient for the present, and that she would write so soon as she had reached her destination.

Even had he yielded to such thoughts they must necessarily have succumbed in the presence of his wife's hour of trial, which had now arrived. I need not say that Dr Jones was called upon to officiate, and his interesting patient was handed over to his entire care. The house was occupied by an army of nurses, and before long Herbert found himself so entirely thrust in the back-ground that he felt himself quite a stranger in the household.





Alice, naturally of a weak constitution, herself regarded her coming sufferings with alarm, but this feeling was soon merged in pleasure, as she thought that her life-happiness would, if possible, be augmented by the birth of a child, and that child Herbert's. Oh! there was heaven in the thought, and she unrepiningly prepared to undergo any amount of suffering.

And she had need of all her courage; for Dr

Jones was compelled to prepare Herbert for the worst. The first physicians in the metropolis were summoned to the conference, but they could do little. Everything must be left to nature.

From the moment of Jones' announcement Herbert was in a pitiable state of mind: do what he could, he could not dismiss the idea that he was about to be robbed of his darling. The thought was agony, for he felt that he had deserved such a punishment for the past, and yet he clung to her the more when there was a prospect of their being separated.

From the commencement of Alice's hour of





trial Herbert never quitted the passage into which her bed-room opened. Every one who left the apartment he hoarsely questioned as to the state of the patient, and the pitying shakes of the head which responded to him only rendered his fear the greater. Every now and then he could hear through the opened door the low wail with which Alice was forced to give utterance to her pain, and he made up his mind to rush in. But Dr Jones had expressly forbidden this: for he feared lest any excitement might prove most dangerous to Alice in her present critical position, and, as he had assumed the responsibility, he was master of the situation. There was a good deal of the old military dictation about the physician, and he kept Herbert in awe.

Thus hour on hour passed away, and still there was no satisfactory solution; the physicians held hurried consultations, each more serious than the other, and they agreed that two hours must settle the fate of their patient.





Herbert, worn out with fatigue and apprehension, had thrown himself on the ground by Alice's door, and no entreaty would move him. At length he fell into a heavy fitful sleep, and, strangely enough, dreamed of the birth of his first-born at the little railway station. Every circumstance was recalled to him with the vividness of a daguerreotype; how the village accoucheur had found no difficulty with Jessie, and how strong and healthy their boy was, when he, the happy and proud father, was suffered to enter the room for a short season, and kiss his Jessie's marble forehead.

Then, by one of those queer changes which happen in our dreams, he saw himself before. the altar with Alice; suddenly a dark form rushed between them and forbade the sacrilege. Still, he obstinately continued his purpose and dragged the shrinking girl forward-but at a sign from Jessie two policemen rushed into the church and laid a heavy hand on his 'shoulder.





He awoke with a start, and on looking up half dazzled he recognised Jones leaning over him.

"Come, my boy, I want to speak to you," he whispered.

Herbert staggered to his feet, and followed Jones to the drawing-room.

"Well! Herbert, I am happy to say that Alice is safe."

"Thank God, thank God!" was all that Herbert could stammer.





-But we could not save the child-", the doctor hesitatingly added.

A cloud came over Herbert's brow, and he involuntarily shuddered. Surely the curse was working. Still, his worst apprehensions were not confirmed; his Alice was saved to him. The child was a loss, it was true, but he felt easy in mind when he reflected on the escape he had experienced.

The shock has been a terrible one for

Alice," Jones went on, "and even yet the ut





most caution must be exercised. I have no doubt we shall pull her through, but when she wakes to the consciousness that the child is dead we shall have to be very careful."

Herbert's fears were again aroused, and he earnestly begged Jones to let him know the worst.





'I have told you," the Doctor answered somewhat testily, "that there is no positive danger, and I depend on you to prevent the blow falling too heavily on Alice. When she wakes and inquires for her child you must be present, and I trust that there may be no unnecessary excitement. But come, ring the bell, my boy, and let me have some dinner, for I have not eaten anything for nearly 18 hours. It is almost as bad as our retreat from Milan, when old Radetzky would not give us time to of coffee."



boil a cup



Herbert was utterly disgusted with Jones's phlegm; he could not imagine it possible for any one to think of eating when death was





brooding over the house. Still Jones was omnipotent, and he rang the bell.

"Come, my boy," Jones said cheerfully, "the worst is past, so you had better come with me to the dining-room and have a snack. You must keep your strength up: it is of no use your moping, that will make matters no better, and I do not want another patient in the family. If you go on in this way you will be laid up too."

But Herbert shook his head.

"Don't talk to me of eating, my throat is parched as with fever."

"Drink, then," Jones dryly remarked, “you must do something to keep your spirits up, and nothing will do you more good than a cigar and a glass of sherry."

The prescription being palatable, Herbert accepted it, and the glorious weed soon soothed him, and revived his drooping spirits. The worst was over, after all: he had no fear





about Alice now, he felt convinced that she would be saved him.

He was allowed full time for his meditations, for Jones, after making a hearty meal, returned to his post by Alice's side.

Strangely chequered were his thoughts, however, and do all he could, he could not prevent them from reverting to his eldest born boy, whom he had sent into exile. How foolish it was of him not to have kept little Herbert by him: Jessie might have been forced into giving him up, and, now, Alice would easily have believed his tale, if he had brought the child to her, and presented him as the only fruit of his early marriage. In that way he could have silenced everybody, Harriette would have been disarmed, while, now, she might at any moment make some dangerous revelation, which would render Alice unhappy. The door was quickly thrown open and Jones stepped in.





"Come, Herbert, the time is at hand, Alice has turned twice in her bed, and may awake at any moment."

Herbert hurried up on tiptoe, and, as he entered the room, heard Alice say in her soft weak voice:





As she looked timidly and yet eagerly around her, Herbert stepped forward and kissed her on the forehead. She looked yearningly in his face, and must have read there the confirmation of her worst fears, for she turned on her pillow and burst into a flood of tears.





'It is all right now, Herbert," Jones whispered: "those tears are the best safety-valve. I was afraid Alice would have been overpowered to such an extent that her grief would have been too big for tears, but she takes an interest in all that is passing, and we may hope the best."

Herbert bent over her, and laid his arm





round her neck. He raised her, and whispered words of consolation in her ear, and she gradually grew comforted. So long as he was by her side she hardly realised her loss—he was her all in all he would console her in her sor



:



row, and her hope was that she should be well and strong again, and able to bear his constant presence.

"Come, come," Jones said, "we must have no more of this: you must be off, sir, at once, and Mrs Gaston must take her composing draught. You can come back at an early hour to-morrow, but now I must insist on your depaiture."

One long, lingering kiss, and Herbert turned from his beloved wife-she followed him with her eyes to the door, and then said with a heavy sigh:

"Now, Doctor, give me the draught; let me sleep with his dear presence as the last thing I can remember."

Jones handed her the draught, and watched





her as she fell off into a deep refreshing slumber, which confirmed him in his opinion that Alice was saved. Then he proceeded to order Herbert to bed, but he would not go till they had had a bottle of wine together. This sacrifice offered to the health of Alice, Jones departed for the night, and Herbert too was sleeping soundly a short time after.

If he had looked out of the window before retiring to rest, he would have seen a figure muffled up in a shawl couching near the door-way. He might have seen her too exchanging a few whispered words with one of the servants in the area, and then hurrying away down the street.

The news of the child's death was a great consolation to Jessie, for it was she who had been watching the house so closely. One great obstacle to her boy's restitution to his inheritance was removed, and she felt ready to make a compromise. She was willing to sacrifice herself, for she was utterly unselfish,





and was almost prepared to forgive Herbert the past, in consideration of the suffering he must be enduring at the failure of his cherished hopes.

"Poor fellow," she sighed to herself, as she in her turn retired to rest.

But this milder sentiment did not last long; as she lay tossing on her bed, the remembrance of all her wrongs flooded thick upon her her revenge would not be consummated so long as Alice remained with him: they must be separated eternally, and then

Hope told a flattering tale: after all, Jessie loved the man who had so outraged her, and soothed herself with the idea that, if Herbert and Alice were once separated, he might be brought back to her side by the love he bore his son. Hence, whatever pity she might at times feel for Alice, she felt that she must be removed from her path. Jessie considered that she was doing her duty by her child, and would have been horrified had any one told her





the real state of her heart: but that such was the cause of her vindictiveness against Alice we may be tolerably assured. Poor Alice! she has but little chance against a woman at once in love and jealous.

But Jessie had left one thing out of her calculations-the state of Herbert's feelings toward herself. She did not reflect that man is ever prone to hate those he has injured, and the more so if the injury has been unwittingly performed. At the present moment, Jessie was a subject of perfect indifference to him, for he had rendered her harmless; but if she carried out her design, and separated him from the woman he loved with his whole heart, this indifference would soon be converted into the most bitter hatred.

Of this she was unconscious, or she might

have changed her plans.

One hope she yet entertained: it might be that Alice died, such things happened often





enough,—and such a death would be a happy release to all. As we have seen, though, Dr Jones' professional credit was at stake, and he was determined that no efforts on his part should be spared to bring her round.

The next morning any good resolves Jessie might have formed were dissipated by Harriette's arrival. She knew all that was going on in Herbert's house, and it was with real satisfaction she informed Jessie that Alice was out of all danger. I firmly believe that the gentle Harriette would have broken her heart had anything happened to Alice, not from any love she bore her sister, but because she would be robbed of her exquisite revenge.

Thus, then, matters remained unchanged, so far as Jessie was concerned; and yet one word from her at the present time would have ended all happily. Had she but openly told Herbert that she was ready to sacrifice herself on behalf of her son, her husband would gladly





have restored the little Herbert to his rights; but how could she make up her mind to such a step for was she not a woman?

Herbert was happily ignorant of all these plots and counter-plots, for his heart was bound up in Alice, who was gradually recovering her strength. He hardly quitted her side for a moment, and he was truly a consolation to her. She slowly recovered from her great loss, and joined him in regarding the future in brighter colours. Only when he was with her, though; for Dr Jones had whispered to her a terrible secret, which, with her self-sacrificing nature, she implored him not to reveal to her husband and rob him his present happiness. If death had set his seal upon her, her decaying hours should not be embittered by the sight of Herbert's repining. He, at any rate, must enjoy his fancied security, and the few months left them to pass together she would strive to render as happy as possible to Herbert.



<



Brave, noble-hearted woman! the secret





pang might prey on her vitals, but not one repining word should betray to Herbert that his happiness was fated to be short-lived.

Probably the hours of Alice's recovery were the happiest Herbert had passed with her. The way in which she hung on him, and begged the support of his stalwart arm, when she slowly moved across the room to inhale the fragrance of her darling flowers, made him forget self and all racking cares. He was growing daily a better man, and his spirit was chastened by the sight of her helplessness.

Ere long, too, well wrapped in Cashmere, shawls, she was enabled to enjoy the fresh air in Hyde Park, her happy husband riding slowly by her side. But she saw nothing that went on around; her eyes were constantly fixed on Herbert, as if she could not gaze her fill of his beloved face. All this was to Herbert the source of unalloyed satisfaction, and he almost felt as if Alice's convalescence would deprive him of his happiness. But men are always selfish,





So matters went on for a while, Alice apparently growing stronger daily, and her cheek recovering its hue—indeed, growing even more flushed than before. But Herbert saw nothing of the change, except that it rendered Alice more beautiful than ever. Years of happiness were in store for him—and, to insure them, he had determined on making atonement for the past by recalling Jessie's son so soon as he heard. from her.

Their happiness was destined to suffer a slight check, in so far as a short separation could do so, for Herbert received a most urgent note from Gerald, imploring him to come to him alone at Doncaster, for his honour and that of the family were at stake. Herbert was most unwilling to go; but when he asked the advice of his gentle counsellor, she urged him to be off at once.

Poor, dear Gerald, he was so rash and headstrong, and his mother had behaved so cruelly to him—no wonder he gave way to deplorable





excesses.



For her sake Herbert must go to his aid; she would supply any money that might be required to extricate him from his difficulties. But to this Herbert stoutly demurred.

"Nonsense, my darling child," he said with a laugh, "the interest of your small fortune is barely sufficient to support your charities and keep your army of dependants at the Larches. I have more money than I ever shall spend, and if Gerald can be saved by that, I am ready to help him.”

And so they parted, Herbert prepared to make further sacrifices, if only to render his wife happy. As if seventy times seven thousand a year would have been sufficient to satisfy Gerald's maddening love of play, which to satiate he had become utterly reckless. But he was too clever to reveal the possession of his secret to Herbert at present: the time for that would be when his "friend" declined any longer to supply his needs. Thus, when Herbert fancied that he had broken out of





the net which compassed him, he was becoming more inextricably involved in it than ever. Gerald's was, as usual, the old story: he had been betting largely, with the certainty of winning an immense sum, but his well-laid schemes had failed, and he found himself indebted to his honourable friends in the sum of four thousand pounds, which he implored Herbert to provide.

It was not without a severe struggle that Herbert consented to advance this enormous sum, and he plainly told Gerald that he only did so for his sister's sake. He knew it was hopeless to try and talk him out of his madness, for it was too deep-rooted; but he hinted that his patience was exhausted, and he really could not justify to himself throwing away such sums for the satisfaction of Gerald's reckless extravagance.

Gerald, however, received his lecture very calmly.

"Oh yes, you will, my dear fellow-you





will never let me want for money, I am sure."

"You had better not try my patience to too great an extent, Gerald, for I shall be forced to refuse you some day, and ruin must befall you." "And I say again that you never will refuse me."

"Why not? "Herbert asked in surprise,

at this decided remark.

"Oh! for my sister's sake you will be my friend."

The words were simple enough, but they were uttered with such a peculiar accent that they afforded Herbert much matter for reflection during his journey home. It could not be that Gerald suspected anything of his relation to Alice: he had been too careful to prevent anything oozing out-yet it was strange. Perhaps he only meant that Herbert's love for Alice would plead on his behalf. So he dismissed the thought from his mind, and revelled in the delight that was awaiting him at home.





Little did he suspect, though, what had happened during his absence. The vulture had swooped down on the desolate lamb, and spread desolation around. Jessie had carried

out her fiendish scheme, and now awaited Herbert's return to reap the fruits of her victory, such as it was.





CHAPTER X.



THE LADIES' BATTLE.



ALICE was sitting in her boudoir, lost in a pleasant reverie: a volume of Tennyson hung idly in her hand, and it was evident that something she had been reading afforded subject for thought.

During Herbert's absence she had constantly reflected on Dr Jones' fearful communication to her, but the wondrous vitality of the religion she professed robbed it of all its terrors. She did not devote a thought on self, or repine at being fated to quit a world in which she enjoyed such perfect felicity: her whole mind was





occupied with her husband and the awful blow this hasty separation would be to him. For her own part, she was fully prepared to obey the summons whenever death brought it she had no sins to atone, and felt that she would join the company of "her high-born kinsmen " without a blot on the scutcheon of her purity.

This self-control was admirable, when we look back on Alice's past short life, and remember that she had been allowed scarce a year of wedded happiness in return for the sufferings she had endured during that sad period of waiting until Herbert was all her own. But of this she never thought; all she asked was that she might be permitted to pass from this world without any further trial to turn her mind from its present state of tranquillity. Poor girl! even this was not to be vouchsafed her it was the destiny of all con



:



nected with Herbert to suffer, and bear a por





tion of the atonement he was compelled to



offer for his great sin.



Looking up suddenly, Alice was surprised to find Jessie standing before her, holding a boy by her hand. She had crept noiselessly. under the portière, and now stood before her victim. With a cry of delight Alice sprang up to greet her, but Jessie waved her back solemnly.

Lost in surprise, the child-wife surveyed her old companion, and saw that she had undergone a great change. Her eyes were hollow and sunken, enduring some fearful struggle that had been going on in her mind, and every trace of colour had deserted her cheeks. The marble-like hue of her features was augmented by the black dress she wore, and she stood before Alice, like the statue of the Commendatore before Don Giovanni.

"All friendship is at an end between us, Miss Alice," she said in a hollow voice, "for





in me and this child you behold



enemies."



your bitterest



Alice shrunk back in terror: she fancied that Jessie must have suddenly lost her senses. Involuntarily she extended her hand toward the bell rope, but Jessie checked her by a warning sign.

"What I have to tell you, Alice, need not be made common scandal by your domestics overhearing it. I have a sad story to lay before you, and will leave the decision in your hands as to what your future course will be." Here she drew a deep breath and continued, "You are not Herbert Gaston's wedded wife!"

Alice gazed at her in amazement, she could hardly credit what she heard: but in a moment the idea of Jessie's insanity returned in double force, and she shook her head, sighing, poor girl."

This expression of pity, however, aroused Jessie to exasperation.





"I thought you would not believe my word, but fortunately I am provided with proof. Here is a marriage certificate, which will fully confirm my statement."

Alice hurriedly glanced over the damning document-she stared fixedly at Jessie for a moment, and then slowly slipped from her chair on to the floor, apparently lifeless.

"Good heavens! I have killed her!" Jessie said in passionate remorse, "why did I not curb my awful temper?" and she bent down and raised the shrunken form of her late mistress to the fauteuil. Little Herbert, alarmed by the scene, began crying bitterly, and the sound nerved Jessie once again. She employed her utmost efforts to restore Alice to life, and at length succeeded. She slowly opened her eyes, gasping, "Where am I?" but in a second the dreadful reality flashed across her mind, and she gave evident signs of a relapse. But this Jessie strove to prevent.

Alice, you must nerve yourself to action





my husband returns to-night, and before his arrival all will be settled. For the sake of this boy, his first-born son, I wish that the matter should have no publicity, and I leave it to you to prevent it."

Alice sat motionless for a long time, the tears trickling through her clenched hands; at length she recovered sufficiently to say:

"Cruel woman! why did you not keep this secret a few short months longer, and I should have been removed from this world, blessedly unconscious of the sin I had committed, Now, you have condemned my brief span of life to be one condition of remorse. I have no hope in this world or in that to come. My dying hours will be embittered by the consciousness of guilt, and though I was prepared to die, I shall now fear the hour."

"What do you say? repeat that!" Jessie demanded imperiously, though evidently much startled.

"Yes, it is true, Jessie, Dr Jones has told me





that I had but a few months to live; I am

suffering from an incurable disease.'





What sudden revulsion came over Jessie, that she threw herself on her knees before her her young mistress and said with imploring energy:

Oh, my dear, kind Miss Alice, how shall I forgive myself? Had I but known this," she went on, frantically wringing her hands, “but I have listened only to the inspirations of revenge. I cared not what desolation I spread, and oh! forgive me, because I levelled this fearful blow at you. Oh, had I but known, had I but known!"

Alice sat lost in thought, as if trying to realise all the horror of her position, and Jessie passionately continued :

"Oh, Miss Alice! forget all I have told you; let it remain a secret between ourselves. I will go far away from London, and you can remain here in peace. I promise not to disturb you again."





At these words the rebellious blood rushed back to Alice's cheeks; her father's pride was aroused in her, and she thrust Jessie from her with a degree of force which would have been hardly suspected in that frail tenement.

"What!" she shrieked, "you would have me be an accomplice in Herbert's crime? Render myself as bad, nay even worse than he? There is some palliation for him; he evidently thought you dead, though I blame him for not confiding all to me at once-but were I to keep this secret, I should be condemning myself to all eternity. No, my course is clear; I must leave this house at once, and never, never see Herbert again."

And she sprang from her seat and began with feverish haste collecting the trifles she had. loved so dearly, and which lay scattered about the room. Mechanically she took up a portrait of Herbert, but on seeing what it was she let it drop, as if fearing pollution.

"No!" she then said, "I will take nothing





from this accursed house, for it would arouse reminiscences which I would shake off for ever.",

"But where will you go, Miss Alice ?" Jessie now said, alarmed at the havoc she had created; "you are not strong enough to travel, it will kill you to leave the house so soon after your late illness."

"And why not?" the girl replied almost fiercely; "could I desire anything better than a sudden death? I have made up my mind to go to the little Welsh village where he and I spent the first six weeks of our marriagepray forgive me if I use that term, for I cannot bear to utter the real word,—there is a kind old priest there to whom I will confide my sin, and humbly implore him to work out my forgiveness."

"Let me go with you, Miss Alice-let me wait on you hand and foot."

But Alice shook her head.

"No, you must stop and console your husband for his loss."





"Husband!" Jessie said, "I tell you I hate him, and have good reasons for doing so. Had it not been for this boy, I would never have wasted a thought upon him."

I really believe that Jessie felt so for the moment, but she would be ready enough to forgive Herbert if the chance were offered her.

You must remain here, Jessie, to break the news to him, for the only condition I insist upon is that he never seek me again. My resolution is irrevocable,-on leaving this house I will never see him more.'





"Well, then, grant me this prayer—so soon as I have performed my task, let me rejoin you, and try by my unwearied care of you to soothe your last hours."

For a moment Alice reflected; suddenly a thought occurred to her, the result of the religion she held. Surely Jessie's presence would be an unceasing moral flagellation to her, and her penitence would be the more sincere when she constantly had before her the woman





whom she had unwittingly injured. Hence, she wrote the name of the village on a card, and handed it to Jessie, telling her that if she adhered to her present determination she might come.

I should not like positively to assert, though, that there was not a small space of womanly feeling underlying in her penitence; by depriving Herbert of both his wives at once, she would prevent him seeking from Jessie that consolation which she was forbidden to offer. However, let us give her the benefit of the doubt.

Full of her purpose, then, she collected the indispensable articles of her toilet, and quitted the house unobserved. Her resolve rendered her a factitious strength, and she went through her business arrangements without faltering. She called at her banker's and drew out her balance, then proceeded to an outfitter's, and provided herself with a stock of clothing, and within two hours was en route for Wales.





But the bow had been overstrung; on reaching the little station, whence a cross country road led to the village, she was removed from the carriage more dead than alive, and conveyed to the Railway Inn. Here I will leave her for the present, and return to London to see the dénouement.

Herbert arrived at his appointed time, and rushed to his wife's boudoir. The room was dimly lighted, for no lamp had been brought in, and he threw his arms round Jessie, who was lying on the sofa. A sudden flickering of the fire-light, however, suddenly showed him the metamorphosis, and he staggered back, exclaiming, "You here?"



rr



'Well, and why should I not be here? I fancy it is my proper place, as your wife."

Herbert was utterly crushed.

"Fiend!" he at length mustered up sufficient strength to yell, "where is my wife? "Here!" was the stern reply.



८८



Alice, Alice, where are you?



are you?" He rushed





into the adjoining bed-room, eagerly searching for her. Then he ran back to the boudoir, but no Alice was to be seen.

"You may make your mind quite easy," Jessie said, who had in the meanwhile lit the candles on the mantelpiece. "Alice has recognised my superior claims and left the field to me. You will never see her again, she bad me tell you; and the only condition on which she promises to keep your secret, is that you leave her unmolested."

"What! has she listened to your statement and fled the house without hearing my defence? how could she give credence to a tale, unsupported by aught than your insinuations ? I did not think her so weak, but I presume she acted on the first impulse. I must be off at once to seek her, and ease her mind. You cannot impugn any story I choose to tell her, for you have not a shade of proof."





Pardon me, Mr Gaston, I did not come

unprovided. Here are all the necessary docu





ments, which you thought you had so cleverly destroyed. Fool! to think that a woman would be baulked so easily in her revenge !" Herbert gazed at her with murder in his



eyes.



"Give me those papers: I will have

them if they cost my life."

"And they shall do so," Jessie coolly replied, as she produced a pistol from her bosom. "Stand off!" she said hoarsely, "I learned the use of this weapon during my exile, and, by the heavens above, I shall not hesitate to use it, if you brave me!"

Herbert was cowed and fell back on the sofa. He was beaten at all points. He must seek safety in a compromise, coward as he was. But his passions were too highly roused for him to yield at once.

"Do not think," he added sternly, "that I will allow you to remain here. Sooner than endure the torture of your constant presence, I would denounce myself, and endure any punishment the law may inflict. You, at any





rate, shall be no gainer by this heartless reve



lation.'



you





"Set your mind quite at ease, my dear Herbert," Jessie said with supreme contempt, will have no occasion to give up your luxurious life. The annuity you have settled on me will amply suffice for my humble wants, and you will not see me again until Alice's death."



"What!" he groaned.



Cruel woman! you might have spared him the last blow, but you must have your fill of vengeance.

"I learned this day from her own lips that her physician had condemned her, and I candidly confess that had I known it before, it would have modified my conduct. To save her dying hours from the disgrace of scandal I shall remain quiet till the hour arrivesbut, then, if you do not act the part of a father to this poor helpless innocent, I shall topple you over."





Herbert was in such an ecstacy of grief at the sudden news, that he did not notice Jessie leave the room with her boy. When he aroused again to consciousness, he found himself alone with his ghastly thoughts. For the second time in his life the thought of suicide beset him: his punishment was more than he could bear, but it gave way to a passionate desire to go in search of Alice, and implore her forgiveness ere it was too late. He felt intuitively that the shock she had endured would precipitate her illness, and he should never know a moment's peace until he had found her, and besought her pardon for the outrage he had done her.

But where could she have gone? ha! that was easy enough to decide! she would have returned to the haven of her convent; he must follow her at once in her weak state she would not be able to travel fast, and he might catch her up before she reached FlorAs we happen to know the secret of



ence.





her retreat, I need only add that after six weeks' fruitless research Herbert returned to England as wise as he set out.

In the meanwhile, and in the fulfilment of her promise, Jessie had started with her boy to join Alice, and alighted at the same station. When she reached the village, great was her alarm at finding that her young mistress had not been heard of there, but, fortunately, she applied to the priest, who had been called over to the station to see Alice, and, accompanied by him, she went to her bedside, and never quitted it till Alice was strong enough to bear removal. The invigorating mountain breezes gradually restored her to her pristine condition, and no traces were visible of the simoom that had blighted her life-happiness, save in the malancholy that settled on her features.

Strangely enough, she felt irresistibly attracted to little Herbert-was the old leaven at work? and did she love the boy because





she traced the striking resemblance to his father? what do I know? To Jessie she also grew reconciled, when she heard the sad story of her life, and felt that she needed forgiveness for the bitter revenge she had taken. But not for a moment did Alice regard herself as a victim-on the contrary, she considered herself equally guilty with Herbert, and every hour. was spent in praying for forgiveness. She had fallen into a morbid state of mind, and there was no external impulse to arouse her from it. She awaited death calmly and tranquilly, and cared not how soon it came.

She had confided to the old priest her sad story, and he fully coincided with her in the necessity of keeping her residence a secret from her recreant husband. In fact, he regarded her as a soul to be saved, and wished for no other influences to disturb the good work. Yet, when he sat sadly gazing on the wreck of one whom he had seen a year before in the flush of her bridal happiness, the old





gentleman could not help clenching his fist, and muttering remarks to himself about Herbert which were most improper in a priesthad he not the feelings of a man.

Jessie, too, benefited greatly by the tranquillity of her mountain home. She had opportunity for reviewing the past, and seeing what misery she had entailed on all parties by obeying her feelings, and deafening the voice of conscience. In allowing the ill-starred marriage to take place, which a word from her would have prevented, she had confounded the innocent with the guilty in her vengeance, and the presence of her sorrow-burdened mistress was a constant monitor to her. She would have given up everything to recall the past, but it was too late. She was beginning to feel that "curses like chickens come home to roost," and was probably quite as miserable at heart as the other two actors in the drama.

Besides, do what she could, the thought would incessantly invade her mind that Alice's





death would produce a change as regarded her own position with respect to Herbert. Through the softening influence of her daily contact with Alice, and the admirable patience with which that poor girl endured all her wrongs and sufferings, Jessie, too, began to regard Herbert with altered feelings. The great cause of her frenzy had been because he had not followed her at once to Australia on his change of fortunes, and that thought had so rankled in her mind, that she had never attempted to reason on the affair. Now, on summing up all the evidence, and, as I hinted, having a decided bias linking in her mind in favour of the culprit, she began to make excuses for him, and allow that he was not so bad as she had painted him.

Then, naturally, vistas of future happiness rose before her, when she as Herbert's acknowledged wife would drink her fill of that benignant cup of love, which had been so long





withheld from her parched lips-and then she could not help regarding Alice's death as a happy release. But a glance at her mistress' careworn face would throw her into an agony of remorse, and she would redouble her attentions, as if thus to keep her in life.

Poor girl! she was suffering all the wretchedness of an ill-regulated life-she had ever listened to the vows of passion rather than of reason, and had been her own worst enemy. Whether her bright visions will come true time will show, but I cannot say she deserves such fruition.



:



One thing I must, however, urge in her favour Herbert it was who had aroused the latent fiend in her temper-he was the real culprit, and must bear the burden of her sin. Women are moulded to good or evil by man's agency, and though, as the old Sultan declared, they are to be found at the bottom of every mischief, it is a moot point whether this is





not in the first instance produced by the moral training their future victims have imparted to them. But this is only another of those mysteries attaching to that most complicated machinery, a woman's heart.





CHAPTER XI.



FACILIS DESCENSUS AVERNI.



ALL this while Herbert was in a terrible state: thinking it hopeless to look for Alice any more, he was indulging the most maddening propensity for intoxication, and was rarely sober for an hour. He had shut up his town-house, for he could not endure the sight of rooms in which he had spent so many happy hours, and had gone into chambers, his constant companion being Gerald Folgate.

The pair had had an explanation, when Alice's flight became known to her brother, and though Gerald was too cunning to let





Herbert know how much he had conduced to the catastrophe, he showed him very plainly that he was in his power. Herbert, besotted as he was with constant drinking (as he said to drive away care, but in reality because it had grown a habit on him), degenerated into a mere tool of Gerald's, and supplied him with money as he wanted it. The consequence was that large inroads were made upon his fortune, and before long he had to raise the first mortgage on the Larches.

In his lucid intervals Herbert frequently resolved that he would fly the country, and hide his shame in the distant wilds of America, where Gerald could not find him. But he could not make up his mind to so decisive a step, for something whispered to him that he should hear of Alice before long, and then the past would be forgotten. Could he but find her and tell her the true story, perhaps she might, through her great love for him, be in





duced to accompany him across the water. Could he but have the chance of trying the experiment! And then, maddened with the thought of what he had lost, he began drinking wildly again, and became more and more involved with Gerald.

Still, he hardly ever thought of Jessie and his boy, or, if he did, it was with a feeling of pleasure that they would not benefit by his fortune. Whatever happened he would have made such inroads upon it, that the Larches would be left so heavily burthened that years would be required to restore it to any value; and there was some comfort to his disturbed brain in that thought. For my part, I firmly believe that incipient insanity had set in. He had endured enough to overthrow the strongest head; there was the long period of doubt when he was at Jessie's mercy; then he had a vision of tranquillity when he had disarmed her; but then came the crushing blow which





had hurled him from his paradise and rendered him the miserable, purposeless wretch he now was.

Gerald felt the insult put on his family most

fiercely, but he intended to take his revenge in a different way. His object was to beggar Herbert, and then tell him why he had done So. In this way he would be enabled to punish his enemy, and secure himself a decent income for life, for the thousands he drew from Herbert were not employed for the payment of gambling debts, but were simply invested in American bonds, for Gerald intended to make that country his home when the great crash



came.



Most skilfully did he play his cards with Herbert: when money ran short, he had no difficulty in getting him to sign bills for large amounts which were readily discounted. But all this was not enough, for it is a difficult task to ruin a man of seven thousand a year single-handed, however maniacal his conduct





may be hence Gerald gradually inoculated



:



him with a taste for play.

When this was once effected, matters went on as easily as an old glove. Gerald took care to invite only those honourable gentlemen to join them with whom he had previously made certain private arrangements, and the amounts they shared were tolerably large. This drained the proceeds of the last loan, and when the bills began coming back with the speed and regularity of a boomerang, fresh advances had to be made on the Larches. In a word, Herbert was going to his ruin with his eyes blinkingly open.

At the end of the first six months Herbert grew more reckless than ever, infuriated as he was at Alice giving no sign of her existence, and he strove to arouse her jealousy by being seen in public with one of the most notorious ladies about London, in the hope that it would reach her ears. Of course this proceeding cost considerable sums of ready money (for bills





were of no use in such a case), and the rich Mr Gaston was soon in a corner once more. However, with his return to society he gave up drinking to some extent, for one vice served to kill the other.

Unfortunately Jessie, in her isolation, heard nothing of these pretty goings on, or, I think, she would soon have come to the rescue for her boy's future welfare. Knowing her weakminded husband so well as she did, she should have kept a watch over him; but, as we have seen, she considered it her expiation for the past to soothe Alice's dying hours. Hence Herbert was allowed his full swing, with nothing to pull him up suddenly, and a pretty mess he made of it. The fortunate Mr Gaston, whom all London had once envied, was in a fair way of ending his days in a workhouse.

Not that he lacked advisers, for both Dymoke and Jones saw with deep sorrow the change that had come over their once-esteemed friend. Of course Alice's departure was known,





and gave rise to a thousand comments, and Jones tried hard to draw from Herbert the secret. But nothing would avail: the wretched man suffered from a species of monomania that he dared not confide the nature of his Dejanira's robe to anybody, lest he might be betrayed; and though his only chance of extenuation would have been to seek the advice of an honest friend like Jones, he could not make up his mind to such a step for fear of the consequences.

Gerald, on the other hand, was the most dangerous companion he could have, for had the sea been made of gold, every spray representing a sovereign, he had a capacity for spending it. He was guilty of double treachery to Herbert, for not only did he lay aside for a future day the proceeds of his extortion, but he also fleeced him in every conceivable way. At length he determined on dealing the final blow, which he effected in this way. Plying Herbert with plenty of his favourite bever





age, when he had reduced him to a proper state of recklessness, he said:

"Old boy, I am sorry to see how hardly luck has been dealing with you lately; why, you must have lost a mint of money. Well! I think I see my way to getting back a large portion of it. What do you say to joining me in a first-rate affair on the Chester Cup? I have the winner certain, and we can make a book that will set us on our legs again."

"Well, I don't care," Herbert said defiantly.



ઃઃ



Very well, then, I tell you what you do:

here are half a dozen bills, you give me your acceptances in blank, and I will fill them up and get them discounted for the sums I think it will be advisable to invest. You may depend upon my not going too far, although the thing is as sure as if I had the money in my pocket at the present moment.





I need not say that Herbert assented, and thus put himself in



Gerald's power.



The latter's eyes sparkled strangely as he





placed the bills in his pocket-book—he had



his foe on the hip.



Matters went on in the same unsatisfactory state for some ten weeks, Gerald repeatedly telling Herbert that he had found no opportunity yet for employing the bills, and promising to return them before long.

Thus the day for the Chester Cup arrived, and two days previous to the race Gerald took an affectionate good-bye of Herbert, and left him for ever. He had played out the game, and on the same morning the first bill became due he was on board a vessel bound for America.

My hero was sitting toying with his breakfast on the next morning, when he heard a tap at the door. He had just energy enough to say come in," when a respectable elderly gentleman walked in.

"Mr Gaston, I believe ? "



"Yes."



"I have come from Messrs Goldham and Co.,





to inform you that four bills, amounting in the aggregate to £13,500, were presented for payment yesterday, bearing your acceptance, and as we had not the funds to meet them they were necessarily protested. This morning two others for £8000 were also presented. My employers thought it their duty to remind you of the fact that they had no assets to meet them, and they supposed it was an oversight on your part."





Thank you," Herbert said, "I confess I had overlooked the fact, but I will go to my solicitors to-day and have the matter rectified at once."

So soon, though, as the clerk had left the room Herbert bounded from his seat. What could be the meaning of this? he thought to himself. Had Gerald played him false? impossible!-he would proceed to his rooms at once, and inquire what he knew of the circumstances.



.



Just as he was leaving the room a stranger





came running up the stairs, and after making particular inquiries whether he was Mr Gaston, handed him one of those quadrangular pieces of paper which make the heart of the boldest among us leap to our mouths. It was a writ for £2200.

Herbert at once rushed off to Gerald's rooms, and then found his worst fears confirmed. His furniture had been sold and a bill was already up. There could be no doubt of it, Gerald had betrayed him after all his kindness to him.

Herbert's next visit was naturally to his solicitors, but even those gentlemen, acquainted as they were with his extravagance, seemed amazed at the frightful sum their client required of them. They held a hurried consultation, and then told him they were afraid they could not raise the money, unless the furniture of both his houses was sold; in fact, everything belonging to him would scarce cover the debt.

This news had the desired effect of a show





er-bath on Herbert: for he had no idea he



Were



had spent such an enormous sum in so short a time, but the solicitors soon pointed out to him that they were perfectly correct. the Larches put up for sale the next day, the property could not realise more than £70,000, and he had already borrowed more than £40,000 it was doubtful if more than £15,000 at the most could be expected from that source, and the rest must be made up from the other property. All his money in the funds and other securities was gone, with the exception of the £20,000 settled on Mrs Wilson, with remainder to her son in a word, unless he made up his mind to sell up everything, it was doubtful whether there would be a shilling left for him.

"Sell everything you please, I give you authority," Herbert said angrily, "but I must have the money at once."

The lawyers bowed and exchanged glances, while Herbert rushed from their office.





Herbert was almost mad with excitement: his sensitive nature recoiled at the thought that Gerald, of all men, should have betrayed him so outrageously, for he had ever treated him with such kindness for his sister's sake.

But Herbert did not yet appreciate all his friend's return for his lavished bounties, though he soon did. As Gerald had such an enormous amount of paper to dispose of bearing Herbert's signature, he had been unable to discount it through the regular channels and had recourse to the Jews. They had taken the paper at a fairish price for them, as Herbert's name stood good in the market, and were now proportionately more wrathy because it turned out fishy. Had they known that the monish would not be forthcoming, they might have clapped an extra twenty per cent. for increased risk.

One of these gentlemen, then, thinking himself hardly used in the transaction, had very little compunction about locking Herbert up





to screw the money out of him, and by that same instinct which brings a flock of vultures upon carrion in almost an instant, detainers for nearly the whole amount were lodged during the course of the next two days. Herbert was half frantic at being deprived of his liberty, and made urgent appeals to his solicitors to bail him out, which, however they declined to do, as they were not quite certain of the assets realising a sufficient sum. They did the next best thing though: they removed him from the dingy hole kept by the Sloman of the day to the Queen's Bench, when they left him with a promise to arrange his affairs as speedily as possible.

But for all their protestations, Herbert remained for three months under lock and

key, and the last state of that man was worse than the first. Had it not been for the thought of Alice, which crossed his mind at intervals, he would have gone utterly to the bad, and he was in all conscience bad enough.





I will not describe the scenes that took place in that Inferno, for they would do no one good: the sole benefit that Herbert derived from his incarceration was that he weaned himself slightly from drinking, possibly from the fact that he could not obtain ab libitum poations, but he gave way, as a compensation, to various other excesses. But I have no heart to follow him in his downward



career.



It is sufficient for me to say that when he emerged from the prison he was a callous, broken man, with all the desire but none of the power for vice, and was ready to prey on others as he had himself been preyed on. All that was left of the wreck of his magnificent fortune brought him one hundred and fifty pounds a year, secured on an annuity.

Heartless as he was, though, he felt a thrill of delight that so much had been saved for his boy. It was a merciful interposition of Providence which induced him to make the





settlement just at the time of Alice's child dying, when he felt the inclination to recall little Herbert. At any rate, his boy would not be left to starve.

It was not with any selfish motive that he now made up his mind to seek Alice: bad as he was he had no wish to live upon her bounty, but he felt that she alone could save him from perdition. If she would give him but one chance-but then flashed across him the thought of Jessie's denunciation. Great God! his Alice might be dead already! But no, Jessie had promised to let him know when that event took place, and she would keep her word.

Calling at his solicitors to see whether there were any letters, he found one in a hand too well known--in the first flush of delight that his Alice still lived for him he tore it open, but he staggered back into a seat, as if paralyzed, when his eye ran over the faint straggling





writing they were but two lines, but they seemed to convey his death-warrant.

"Herbert, my beloved, let me see you once again ere I die."

He glanced at the date, it was too days old: could he be in time yet? at any rate he would try, and hurried off to the Great Western as fast as cab could convey him.

Away flew the express train, flashing past stations, hoarsely rushing through tunnels, like the angel of death swooping on its prey. Away, away, but not so fast as Herbert's thoughts fled to Alice! could he but see her alive and crave her pardon! then, he cared not how soon he died himself. Life had no pleasure for him, once he was certain that the woman he had loved so fondly was lost to him for ever.

That death-bed scene might have been a lasting memento to him, but he was not fated to witness it. When he reached the little





road-side station at a late hour a fearful snowstorm was falling, and though he bribed a driver heavily to press on, they had not gone far ere they were blocked. Hastily paying his fare, Herbert descended from the crazy vehicle, determined on forcing his way through the drift at all risks.

It was a fearful walk, and had not all Herbert's faculties been concentrated on one object, he could never have achieved his purpose. Twenty times he was on the verge of destruction by drawing too near the edge of the road, which ran along the side of a mountain, with a fearful deep on the other side, but some kind angel watched over him. He trampled every obstacle under foot, but when day broke he was still four miles from the little village.

He sat on a stone by the way side, utterly exhausted; after the first turmoil of excitement he had undergone, a reäction naturally took place.

From the crest where he sat, the village he





had toiled all the night to reach lay almost at

his feet. The roofs glinted in the sickly rays of the morning sun: there was the house in which he had spent those happy hours with Alice, which he was never, never to know again. With a shudder at the thought of now and then he rose from his seat to continue his wanderings.

As he turned, a muffled sound rose from the valley to his ear: hark! again and again at slowly regular intervals. It must be stay, listen once again-ah! it is too true—'t is the passing bell!

With a hoarse cry Herbert rushed from the road side in a direct line for the village: he cared naught that he was at times imbedded to his neck in snow, and then compelled to make the most perilous leaps from crag to crag. Only one person he cared for in the village, and she was dead-the sound of the bell still smote on his ear-he must reach her side so soon as possible.





Madly and furiously he rushed onwards till he reached the zone of vegetation: but hedges and ditches were no obstacle to him, he bounded over them with the speed of a roe-deer. The affrighted villagers surveyed his mad leaps with consternation, but he flashed past them like an arrow from a bow, and sped toward the house where they had formerly lived. Instinct, for reason was almost slumbering, told him that Alice would have selected that house as her residence: all he cared for was to reach it.



But



Along the village he flew, the people rushing to their doors to see this strange visitor. little recked he of their amaze: his mind was bent on one object.

At length, at length, the house appeared in sight he bounded over the garden wicket and reached the hall door. But stay, what figure is that which advances to meet him! can he be in his senses ?-impossible! it must be a phantasm of his over-wrought brain. There stood Jessie, his injured wife, keeping guard





With a hollow groan he fell to the ground, and all was a blank!

When he recovered his senses he found himself reclining on a sofa, and familiar faces around him. There was the good old priest; him he recognised at a glance. There too stood the motherly old landlady-but as a fiend excluding him from Paradise there too stood Jessie.

A faint smell of incense pervaded the room, and added to the magic of the scene, while at intervals could be heard the voices of the Acolytes singing a dirge.

"Alice! where is Alice?" he at length found strength to utter.





'Calm yourself, my son," the priest said in a gentle tone; "she has indeed gone where the wicked cease from troubling and the weary are at rest."





"Amen!" Jessie uttered in a sepulchral



voice.



"Ah! the passing bell," Herbert shrieked, "ah, it is too true, I see it all now. My Alice is gone from me for ever. We shall never

meet again in this world or the next.'





And with these words of evil omen Herbert fell back in another fainting fit. His mental agony, combined with his bodily exhaustion, was too much. He was in a coma.

A messenger was hastily sent off to the nearest town to fetch the doctor, and Jessie devoted herself entirely to her husband. For three days and nights she never quitted his side, and was the most unwearied of nurses. Slowly he awoke to a consciousness of his great loss, and would not be comforted, in spite of all Jessie's efforts.

She, too, was crushed in spirit: she no longer arrogated to herself the right of assuming the divorce functions, and taking vengeance into her own hands. She clung to





Herbert as her protector, and was severely punished when she witnessed the almost irresistible loathing with which he turned from her. The blow was too fresh for him yet to forget the cruel cause of all his sufferings.

Still, he had to arouse himself, for the time for the funeral was at hand, and he must be present at that ceremony. To all other things he was utterly apathetic; he did not ask for little Herbert; he did not feel the slightest interest in anything that took place; he ate nothing, drank nothing, but waited with feverish excitement the hour which to his morbid fancy would signal his eternal separation from all he loved on earth.





CHAPTER XII.



THE TEMPTATION.



ALICE, poor darling, had found rest at last. But even her last moments were embittered by the thought that her husband had not arrived to receive her free and frank forgiveness. When the time drew on that her hours could almost be numbered, the old padre had no objection to her summoning Herbert to her side, and the letter was written which caused such a sudden revulsion in him.

Eagerly she counted the hours as she lay shivering in her bed; her sole desire on earth. was to join his hand once again with that of





Jessie. All her other arrangements had been made: she had left her fortune to Herbert's boy-her mother receiving the interest during her life-and she had thus made atonement for the wrong she had so innocently done Jessie. Can we blame her that she should wish to see Herbert once again? Everything around her recalled him to her mind; this was the very room they had shared together during their brief span of happiness. In that pleached garden-walk they had rambled, and watched the buzzing bees as they collected their crop of honey. But how changed was the scene now! Then, every flower had sent forth its fragrance to add to her delight; now, all was buried beneath an icy cerement of snow. It was a fit resemblance of her own short life of marriage !

So she lay on her bed, anxiously awaiting Herbert's arrival, and though hope deferred truly made her heart-sick, not one one word of repining, not a sign of petulance, pass.









ed her lips. As in life so she was in the bondage of death: ever self-forgetting, all her thoughts concentrated on Herbert and the hope that she might yet reconcile him to Jessie, who would supply her place better than she had done.

What a lesson was this for Jessie! What were her wrongs in comparison with those Alice had endured! She had nursed her revenge till it became the object of her existence; while Alice had never once sought satisfaction for the wrong done her. Jessie, with her generous nature, was touched to the heart ; she knelt by her mistress's side, kissing her poor wasted hand incessantly, and imploring her forgiveness for all she had made her suffer; but the poor girl with a sad smile would only say:





'Hush, hush, Jessie, ask not forgiveness of me--you have had that long ago: seek it from Him above. You are young yet, Jessie, and many happy years are before you, I trust. Take care of Herbert for my sake, and let us





hope we shall meet again in another world, where no human passions will be able to destroy our mutual felicity."

And then after a pause she would add:





Go to the window, Jessie, and see whether he is coming; surely he must be here by this time."

Those who have read Elizabeth Barrett Browning's "Bertha in the lane "-and who have not ?-will be able to spare me the trouble of analyzing the inward torture Alice endured by Herbert's continued absence.

Suddenly a marked change came over her; her face began to fall in, and Jessie despatched a messenger at once to the priest, begging him come instantly to administer the viaticum. Alice was prepared for death; her only cause of regret was that Herbert was not there to hear her assertion that she had forgotten the past. "Poor fellow," she panted, "I am sure it would be such a comfort to him after I am











implored both Jessie and the pardre to tell him that her last thoughts had been about him, and then she added gently, "Jessie, love, put your arms round my neck, I think I can go to sleep."

Jessie supported her, and she gradually fell

back in a light slumber.

and she sighed forth,





Once her lips parted "God bless you, my



Herbert.' They were the last words she ever spoke, nor did she wake again in this world. She was mercifully allowed to depart without the last pang of seeing what she left, in the uncertainty of what she was about to see, and her spirit winged its way aloft so gently that even Jessie, who watched her so attentively, was unconscious of the fact.

Such was the sad story Jessie told Herbert, as she knelt by his side on the evening after the funeral. All their animosity was in the grave with the poor victim of their passions, and both bitterly regretted the past, when such regret was unavailing.





With Jessie, who was of an impulsive nature, the remembrance of the scene she had witnessed faded away more rapidly than with Herbert, who sat gazing at vacancy, and nothing seemed to rouse him. He listened to Jessie's story without uttering a word of comment; he allowed her to kiss his forehead and breathe the deepest regrets in his ear, without betraying a sign of feeling. In short, he seemed petrified.

At length, Jessie thought of a plan to rouse him; she fetched her boy, and placed him in Herbert's lap. For a while he gazed on the boy vacantly, but at length he aroused himself sufficiently to say:

"Take him away, take him away, I cannot bear to look upon him. I have behaved worse to him than to you all. I have beggared him." Jessie was much startled at this outburst, and she said:

"What do you mean, Herbert ? "

He slowly raised himself in the chair and said:





"Listen to me, Jessie; I am quite calm now. From the moment that money came into my possession it has been a curse to me. Had it not been for that we should never have been separated, and I should not have married Alice, to condemn her to a life of misery. I have been her murderer in word if not in deed." Oh, say not so, dearest Herbert," Jessie eagerly remarked; "remember that Dr Jones had announced before my fatal revelation that she was doomed to a premature grave.

"Ay, girl, but that disease would not have been so rapid had it not been for her unhappy marriage with me. That developed the latent germ, and the birth of her child allowed it to continue its ravages. Do not deny it, Jessie, I murdered her."

"No, Herbert, if any one is to blame, it is my wretched self. I caused the evil, and I know you hate me for it, but remember what I endured. The thought that my husband was lavishing the rich treasure of his love on





another overpowered my reason, and I struck the blow, regardless of the consequences. I cannot blame you for hating me, for I hate myself for the desolation I have produced."





My hatred, Jessie, lies in the grave with that poor girl. She bade me forgive you, and I do so heartily. But it is your turn, now, to forgive me. In my frenzy at the separation from Alice I have squandered almost every shilling of my immense property,-all that is left is the £20,000 I fortunately settled on you and the boy."

" And which I will never receive," the highspirited girl replied; "Alice has amply provided for all our wants. We are rich, as far as money is concerned, but beggars as regards a husband's and a father's love. Say, Herbert, is it too late to repair the past-will you fulfil Alice's dying wish?"

And Jessie looked up imploringly to him. A heavenly flush suffused her face, a remembrance of the old happy days came across Her





bert's mind, but it was only for a moment. Alice seemed to stand between them and beckon him to join her.

"No, Jessie," he said mournfully, "my hatred and my love are buried together.



.



Tempt me not, it cannot be. My life will be. devoted to repentance, that I may implore the forgiveness of Heaven for the wrong I inflicted poor innocent victim.'



on that





But, Herbert, think of your son, surely he is not to suffer as well as yourself. Is he not to know a father's fostering care? is he to remain with me, and when he asks for his father am I to reply that he has none? On my bended knees, Herbert, I implore you to consider your judgment; I ask it not for my sake, but for this poor innocent boy; we have both been grievous sinners, but we must not make him our scapegoat."

How gloriously beautiful she looked as she uttered this appeal! the fresh mountain air had filled up all the indentations in her face,





her bust was fully developed-she was the incarnation of loveliness!

And so Herbert would have thought had not every sensuous feeling been dead within him he lived only on the past, the present held out no allurements for him.



:



"I am aware, Herbert," she continued with a beautiful blush, "that it is hardly a fitting time for me to urge my suit, when our poor Alice has hardly quitted the house. But remember that it was her most earnest wish that we should repair the past, and by doing so we may increase her happiness in another world."





Tempt me not, Jessie, tempt me not. It must not be--it would be a sacrilege-my life belongs to her. You are well provided for: you can bring up your boy in the right path, and thank your God that he never knew a father, whose base example he might be tempted to follow."

Herbert, you are indulging in morbid thoughts, which can do you no good. The





shock of the last few days has been too much for you the impression has not yet worn off: but I implore you to think over the matter; we both owe an expiation to that poor girl, and how can we better perform it than by fulfilling her last behests ?





Herbert gazed on her for a long time, then he continued:

"Jessie, do you remember that fearful scene at. Wiesbaden, when Sir Norton broke in upon us ? "

She nodded in mute assent-was it likely that she would ever forget that fearful hour?

"I must have been a prophet in those days," he said in a frosty smile, "for I told you then that any connection between us would prove the ruin of both. Has it not been so-have we not been miserable since we have known each other?".





'No, I say, and no again. We spent many, many happy hours together. Oh, God! that

we had never left the humble country station





where my poor boy was born! we were poor but we were happy. You had no ambitious dreamsI only lived in and for you. And I am ready to go back to it this moment. Perish money: let us give up all we possess and commence the world afresh-if wealth be a curse, as I begin to believe it is, let us boldly free ourselves from its trammels, let us start on the race of life purified, and with the wisdom we have gained from the past I have no fears for the future. With my two Herberts by my side I defy the fiercest frowns of misfortune, for your love will bear me scatheless through the trial.”

Herbert heaved a heavy sigh, then said wearily :

"A bright dream, Jessie, but one that can never come true. My heart is buried with the dead. I have none left for the living.'





What fearful punishment was it to Jessie to hear these sad words, uttered in a voice which evidenced their truth. This was not a case in which days, months, or years would cause a





change it seemed to her as if Alice exercised some irresistible influence from beyond the grave, and held Herbert in fetters through which he could not break. At any rate, she was au bout de son latin for the present, though she determined to return to the charge again at the first opportunity. She slowly retired from the engagement, beaten but not routed, and intended to return to the charge the next day, when she hoped to bring the influence of the priest to bear.



་



But she had miscalculated: when she came down the next morning she found that Herbert had disappeared. She made every inquiry, and even in her excitement proceeded to the station, where she learned that he had returned to town by the night mail train.

Determined not to let him escape her so easily, she made up her mind to follow after him. She settled the few outstanding accounts in the village, and within a couple of days





found herself in London, but no wiser than when she started. We know how energetic she could be if she pleased, and may feel assured that she spared no effort to reach Herbert, but it was all in vain. He was not to be found anywhere. She inquired in every possible quarter, but no one had seen him, and hence she was obliged to have recourse to the last plan, of advertising in that mysterious second column of the Times which daily conceals such family skeletons.

Jessie, however, was utterly thrown out; but her natural elasticity of mind soon returned to her. She arranged all her money affairs satisfactorily, and found herself in possession of a very handsome income as times went. She put little Herbert to a first-rate school, and then set out on a deliberate search for her husband.

Had she known, however, in what he was engaged, she would have perhaps hesitated.





Herbert was filled with an idée fixe-in other words, he was closely verging on the line that separates monomania from madness.

He was busily occupied in superintending a marble-mason, whom he had engaged to carve a cross which should decorate Alice's grave. In the centre compartment were her name and his own, and he fondly hoped that he should share her grave ere long.

So soon as this memento was completed he proceeded with it to Wales, and stayed with the good old priest till it was erected. But the effort was too much for him in his present state of health: he could not be torn from the spot by any persuasion, and, one morning, on the priest going in search of him, he found him lying senseless across the grave. His mind seemed hopelessly gone.

Jessie, hastily summoned, took up her post by his bedside, and waited on him like the most patient of nurses. It was a long time, however, before he regained his senses, and it was





only to relapse into a state of settled melancholy, which was more destructive of Jessie's hopes than even his insanity.

In vain did the priest urge him to reëstablish his penates and live with Jessie: he shrunk from the thought. He felt that an expiation was due to Alice, and he could not consent to enjoy the comforts offered him. It was his settled purpose to become a missionary— nothing would turn him from it.

And here I am afraid the padre took rather an unfair advantage: having done his best to restore Herbert to his wife, and finding he could not succeed, he considered that there was no harm in gaining another erring soul for his own Church, and he soon began working upon Herbert con amore.

: Nor did he meet with the slightest difficulty: Herbert, I may say, was of no religion, as regarded the practical branch, and there was something in the tenets of the Catholic Church peculiarly soothing to his present state of mind.





The priest constantly conversed with him on the labours of their missionaries and the perils they ran for the sake of propagating their faith among the heathen, and how many of these had attained that most glorious of rewards, a martyr's crown. Most unfairly too, as I think, he drew odious comparisons between the Church missionaries and those of his faith.

"See," he would say, "where the Church Missionaries direct their efforts. You will find them at every pleasant spot among the South Sea Islands, residing on flourishing estates and waited on by armies of natives. They live on the fat of the land, and combine business with profession. They garner in a few years a comfortable fortune, which they return home to enjoy. But you do not find them, like our missionaries, penetrating the desolate wilds of the Sahara to spread the glad tidings of the Gospel, or living fearlessly among the savage Indian tribes of Northern California."





Much in this wise did the old gentleman discourse, and Herbert, who needed but slight persuasion, and regarded for the present at least death in the service of her Church as the noblest atonement to Alice, readily agreed to proceed to Oscott and commence his studies.

We can easily imagine Jessie's grief when this decision was announced to her, for her hopes were indefinitely postponed; still, like a wise woman, she allowed time to work a cure. She thought that such a sudden conversion could not be very deep-rooted, and had a shrewd notion that Herbert, when the first numbing feeling of prostration had worn off, would sigh for the flesh-pots of Egypt.

Hence they parted with mutual good wishes, Jessie retiring to Bath, Herbert proceeding to Oscott. They promised to write to each other, and were altogether on the best possible terms. Prior to their final separation, Jessie handed him a photograph of herself and boy,





which would keep them in remembrance, and confidently awaited events.

I need not say that Herbert was gladly welcomed at Oscott, for, though he was fortunately unable to take the priestly vows, owing to his being married, he might be rendered useful as lay-teacher. Perhaps, too,

the fact that he possessed an income sufficient for support without calling on the funds of the mission, may have had something to do in the hearty welcome he received; but I will do the Catholic priesthood the justice of saying that they make no distinction between Alexander the king and Alexander the coppersmith, when the welfare of their Church may be promoted.

In Herbert they possessed, as their sharp sight told, a ductile instrument, that might be moulded into any shape. He was carefully watched and his every thought analyzed, but, at last he was declared fitted for the self-imposed task. He was attached to the mission in Texas,





and left England to undertake his new duties in a confident yet chastened spirit.

Almost the first person he met on landing at Galveston was Gerald Folgate, who had not benefited by his plunder. He was in a ghastly condition, broken by intemperance and the satisfaction of his passions, and Herbert had not the heart to upbraid him for his treachery. Indeed, in his present enthusiasm, he almost felt grateful to him for having enabled him to undertake his new duties.

Gerald's story was a very common one; soon after his arrival in America he had begun playing again, but he found more than his match among the 'cute Yankees. He was gradually fleeced of every dollar he could raise, and was finally left to his own resources, which availed him little in so fast a land, where ill-luck always befalls the hindmost in the race. At length he migrated to that last refuge for the destitute, Texas, where he picked up a precarious livelihood by the most





disreputable means. Another instance of the

curse which attached to Herbert's money



!



Herbert frankly forgave him, and, indeed, supplied him with a small sum of money to cover his immediate necessities. But Gerald was not destined to trouble anybody long, for he was shot one night in a low gamblinghouse, and his body tossed into the sea.

Such was the sad result of a foolish mother's indulgence; brought up in the possession of every luxury, Gerald had never been able to deny himself any of the pleasures he desired, and had gone on from bad to worse. I wonder whether Mr Brien had calculated on this when he urged Lady Folgate to allow him to enter the army! But the very thought is a scandal to so good a man-he must be a good man, for all the ladies run after him, and he is the most popular preacher out; you see his portrait in every shop window, his sermons run through any number of editions; he is quoted as the one sure director of doubting





minds-but I fancy that men generally fight



shy of him.



And yet with all these qualifications his friend Lord Wynville has not yet promoted him to a deanery! However, he does not despair, there is a good time coming, he thinks, and he means. to urge his claims strongly when the next vacancy occurs.

For my part, I have not the least doubt he will succeed, for he is a shining light of that branch of the church which his Lordship generally favours, when there is any good thing to be given away.





CHAPTER XIII.



THE CURTAIN FALLS.



THREE years have elapsed since the chequered events I have attempted to describe, and Jessie sits in her comfortable morning-room, engaged in reading a long letter. The contents must be of a pleasing character, for she smiles with evident satisfaction, and lays it down every now and then to indulge in an agreeable reverie.

Looking more closely at her, you will be surprised to see how she has changed for the better. The easy life she has led has removed every trace of care from her features: her face is rounded and full, and you cannot trace a





sign of that skull, on which Mr Tennyson reminds us the fullest face is rounded. She is happy, simply because her life is spent in doing good she is a constant friend to the poor, but, better still, she has a conciousness that during the stormy period of her life she was guilty of a great crime. But she takes up the letter again: let us peep over her shoulder and see the contents. It is from Herbert, of course, and written from Australia.

"Yes, Jessie, I have made up my mind to come home at once, for I am beginning to think that after all religion like charity should begin at home. For the last two years I have been engaged in helping to convert the heathen in all parts of the Pacific, and the result is far from encouraging. I think that I could do better service to the cause I have espoused by visiting the poor and the vicious in our crime-laden Metropolis, and I have, therefore, signified my intention to the Metropolitan, who has kindly acceded to my wishes.





"But to carry out my design efficaciously I shall need a helpmate, and to you, Jessie, I look for assistance. I feel sure that you will not deny me, and, working hand in hand for our future salvation, a happy and useful life may still be vouchsafed to us. Let us forget the past and begin a new life: chastened by the remembrance of our past wickedness, of which we both sincerely repent, let us strive to obtain forgiveness of that sainted creature above, whom we both treated in so cruel a manner. If she be permitted to look down on our labours, she will be happy to see us engaged in a task for which she ever felt so enthusiastically.

"I offer you a heavy. task, I know, but I have faith in you, Jessie. I know your good heart too well, and feel that the past has read you a stern lesson as well as myself. It may be that you feel disinclined to give up your present life of comfort, and break up your happy home for my sake; but I have no hesi





tation in giving you the alternative. Let a letter await me at the Southampton post-office, and if it contain the promise I dare to hope, I shall not lose a moment in hurrying to join





No wonder Jessie smiled so pleasantly on reading this letter, for did it not contain what she had been so long hoping? she had no hesitation in accepting Herbert's offer, and at once sat down to write the letter. Then she ordered Herbert home from school to receive his father, and cheerfully awaited his arrival.

And Herbert did arrive, of course sooner than he could be expected. After the first inarticulate sobs of delight at clasping him again in her arms, Jessie surveyed him in rapture. It was, indeed, her old Herbert come back to her; every mark left by dissipation had disappeared, and nothing but his bronzed face and hands served to prove that their separation was not a dream. He looked exactly as he did on that dreadful day when she





went on board the Ramchunder. The past must be erased from her mind: they would live only for the future.

Herbert, for his part, duly impressed with his mission as he was, regarded Jessie with equal looks of pleasure, for she was really eminently beautiful. She too had regained all the charms of her youth, and did not seem. an hour older. Time had stood still for her during their separation.

There was not a cloud on the horizon to dim their happiness, the storm of contending passion had subsided, and they embarked on their new life with the most favouring auspices.

And so, Jessie," he said, as he sat by her side on the sofa, with his arm round her waist, just as in the olden time, "you are ready to give up this house and all your acquaintances to follow me to London ?"

Ay, Herbert, and to the end of the world, if you desire it. Henceforth, I live





only for you, and your every command I



will obey implicitly."



A glowing kiss on her forehead signed the compact.





Ere long they removed to London, and took a modest house in the suburbs. Herbert attached himself to the society of St Vincent de Paul, and Jessie ably seconded his efforts. Together, they visited the rookeries of London, imparting consolation and relief wherever they appeared and they became the almoners of many of the richer classes, who desired to aid in the good work, but feared to undertake it themselves.

After a time Herbert lost the aid of his assistant for a while, for Jones (to whom all had been confided, and who was delighted to see matters end so happily) issued a peremptory fiat against any over-exertion. But it will be only a temporary absence, and Jessie will be about again doing good before long.





I need not say that this is a life of unalloyed happiness: the image of Alice often appears to them in their dreams, but ever smiles sweetly upon them, and they strive by this atonement to obtain forgiveness. They are religious and pious, but not obtrusively SO: if you dined with them, you would not find the roast garnished by moral axioms, nor does Jessie in her missions of mercy, when her poor ask for bread, think it absolutely necessary to wrap up her dole in a good tract. They know too well that when the stomach is empty a poor man is apt to regard religion as a very poor succedaneum for roast beef, and hence they attend to the material comfort of the recipient before they regard his spiritual well-being. It is surprising what a number of converts they make in this hetero



dox way.



More charming still, they are gradually

collecting around them a valuable body of assistants both Mrs Dymoke and Mrs Jones



:





are ardent in the cause of their religion, and they supply Jessie's place admirably. Herbert lives in hopes that he shall be enabled to establish a school before long, and then the crowning wish of his heart will be gratified. He has greater hopes of training the young than those who have grown grey in iniquity, and wisely considers that education is the most potent lever he can employ.

To one point they however remain staunch: the whole of Jessie's income, arising from Herbert's settlement, is bestowed in charity: for Jessie, spite of her excellent commonsense, is superstitious on that point. He will not allow a single connecting link with his past vicious career, and Jessie is only too glad to respond to his wishes, for this repugnance affords her a famous guarantee of future happiness, inso much that it proves to her that Herbert has no repinings for his luxurious life.

Still they live very comfortably: they have quite enough to satisfy their modest wants,





and I think little Herbert is the best off of the family. He will soon be sent to Shrewsbury, where his father hopes that he will in the end hold the place he once had, and he will take care that he does not fall into such errors.

And here I may safely leave them; they have sinned and they have suffered, and though they never will overcome the remorse they feel for Alice's death, they are happy, as times go. Everybody has a skeleton in his household, we are told: theirs is the ghost of Alice, which hovers round them, not grimly and defiantly, but smiling and encouraging them to increase their efforts for the salvation of their fellow beings. They have accepted this as their allotted chastisement on earth, and have grown to love it. Many years of felicity, I trust, await them.

We have seen the fate of all the actors in our little drama save one. I am sure my readers will have taken such an interest in Mrs Wiggins that they will be glad to know what





became of her.

all the party, I



She is the worst punished of

am happy to say: for she has but one hundred a year to live upon, and is a confirmed invalid. An awkward blow her husband had given her on the night of their row had developed itself into a cancer of the breast, and there is but little hope of her recovery. She drags on a miserable existence at Boulogne, living principally on scandal, and universally detested.

Mrs Wiggins has made several tentatives to be reconciled to the Gastons, but, good as they are, they cannot find it in their hearts to forgive her. Her whole life had been spent in doing evil it was almost a monomania



:



with her and they would not allow her to





invade their modest household, for they felt convinced that she would leave the slimy trail of her presence behind her. She wreaks her vengeance by telling the story of her murdered sister to every one who will listen to her. But, as she is confined to her room, she has





not so large and appreciative an audience as she might desire.

As for Jones, he is making an enormous fortune, which I do not begrudge him. Every summer he migrates to the Continent, where he has discovered a peculiarly nasty spring, which, of course, cures every known and unknown disease. He is followed by a colony of believers, who drink the nastiness on his recommendation, and this secures him a large clientèle for the winter months, for it puts the digestive functions in an astounding state of disorganization.

But I do not blame Jones one bit for taking advantage of the follies of his patients: ninetenths of them have really nothing the matter with them, and only fancies them poorly, because it renders them interesting. As he is obliged to take their fees, he compounds with his conscience by giving them some reason for taking medicine, and I dare say the opera tion does them a good deal of good.





CHAPTER XIV.



AN APOLOGY,



In conclusion, may I be permitted to buttonhole my reader for a minute and have a chat with him about my story? Now-a-days it is so much the fashion for novels to be written "for a purpose," and didactic stories are so greatly in vogue, that in offering the public an ordinary novel I feel myself in some measure put upon my defence.

Any purpose, then, I had in the present novel lies on the surface: it would hardly require so many pages to prove that it is unadvisable to commit bigamy, however innocent. My hero





is an every-day character: you jostle against twenty such any day in walking along the Strand, and if with him money was the root of all evil, I can say that I had no intention of illustrating that trite axiom. Hence, I offer my story, such as it is, with a solemn assurance that it is not intended to convey any deep moral, or as an attempt to gild the ever bitter pill of good advice.



It



may



be that I am heterodox in many eyes, but I am of opinion that just as folks go to a theatre to be amused, and not with the design of having morality inculcated into them, so they take up a novel to kill time, or enjoy a little pleasant mental excitement. If doses of moral sentiment are exhibited in every page, they are apt to begin to yawn, and that is fatal to the success of the best-constructed story.

That there may be many shortcomings in my novel I am well aware, and when I got into the midst of it I began to discover that I had undertaken a task beyond my strength. The





only apology I can offer is, that it has been written at the few intervals of a literary life, which is busier, I am sorry to say, than that of most writers. It may be fairly urged, I allow, that this is but a lame excuse, for if I was so much engaged I had no necessity to add to my labours by obtruding a novel on the public. But my readers will forgive me, I feel convinced, when they know the relief the composition of these pages has afforded me. When mind and hand have been both jaded, I have ever gladly turned from my unwelcome task, and sought solace in more pleasant occupation.

Purposeless, then, as my story is-disjointed and episodical as I feel it to be-if I have succeeded in interesting my readers sufficiently for them to follow the development of my hero's character, I shall consider myself amply rewarded.



THE END.