ONLY A A WOMAN!



CHAPTER I.



SPRETÆ INJURIA FORMÆ.



FROM one of Mr Stubbs's revelations we have learned what had become of the fair Harriette. It was only too true: her husband had deserted her, leaving her but one hundred a year of her large fortune, and she was doing her best to make both ends meet in that sojourn of cockneydom, Boulogne-on-thesea, which may be regarded as another London-super-mare.






Mr Wiggins had basely deserted his wife, there could not be the least doubt of it, and had Sir Cresswell Cresswell been at that time presiding over the Divorce Court, she would have had ample proofs to support her demand for a judicial separation. Any number of witnesses were prepared to prove that Mr Wiggins had treated his poor, dear, unoffending wife most brutally, and she could have sworn to the truth of it, without compunction. I have not the least doubt on my mind that he beat her on several occasions, and we all know "the man who would strike a woman, &c."

I am sufficiently heterodox to believe, however, that the gentle Harriette deserved all she got and more, for she was provocation in person. When she first ran away with her husband he was justly proud of her, and had every disposition to yield to her. Had she chosen to manage him, she might have been in possession of her fortune at the present





moment, but she was not of a nature either to be happy herself, or allow any one connected with her to be so. After the treacle month was over, and Harriette's revenge on her relations had lost its piquancy, she began to repent her bargain, for Mr Wiggins, though a very goodlooking young fellow, was not exactly suited to her tastes or requirements. Do all he could, he remained of the horse, horsy, and bore with him into the drawing-room a far from fragrant odour of the stable-yard, which set patchouli at defiance. He had, too, other habits not usually practised in decent society; he preferred a three-pronged fork to a toothpick at any time, and had a fatal facility for whistling between his teeth, as if still engaged in rubbing a horse down.

Harriette, who had a very fair share of what I may term dirty pride about her, soon saw that it was impossible to enter society with such a person as she had chosen for her husband, and gradually broke with all her old





acquaintances. Thus thrown into the constant company of a man whom she heartily despised, her natural ill-temper broke out in worse proportions than ever, and she certainly led her husband a deuce of a life.

From morn till night she indulged in vain regrets for the past, and, though Mr Wiggins for a long time bore her insults with the patience of a Stoic, as we all know, the bent bow must break at last. Her husband, finding no comfort at home, fell into a habit of staying out till an early hour, and when he did come home diffused an odour of stale tobacco and rum-and-water, than which the horsy smell was, perhaps, preferable. From this moment their life grew intolerable, for Harriette had some gentle instincts. She was utterly vexed at discovering on whom she had thrown herself away, and she grew worse and



worse.



Not long ago, I heard in a court leading out of the Strand a woman abusing her hus





band with every foul epithet to which she could lay her still fouler tongue. When she had drawn him to the verge of madness and exasperation, she yelled, "Now, you strike me, you coward, and I'll give you six months, as sure as my name's Sally." Much in the same way did Harriette treat her unhappy husband, always omitting the language; still, I fancy, she managed to wound him more by her sarcasms than if she had broken a bottle about his head.

If she wanted to make him thrash her, she fully succeeded, for he beat her most heartily one night, when he was slightly overtaken and had asked her for money, which she refused him with many a sneer, which would have been the height of vulgarity in one less educated. So soon as she had recovered from her bruises, she invoked the aid of a lawyer to bring about a separation, and Mr Wiggins naturally did the same. He was far more successful than the lady; for he made the





up



grand discovery that all her money belonged to him, and evinced no hesitation as to giving the lady so that he kept all of her money. For my part, I consider that Mr Wiggins evinced a remarkable degree of generosity in allowing her one hundred a year, which he was not compelled to do, and she was glad enough to take it, for she was a coward at heart, and would not return to her husband on any consideration, for fear of the consequences.

Wiggins, I fancy, must still have loved his wayward wife a little, for he placed the money in the hands of trustees for her, so that no accident might rob her of it, and then went on the turf with the rest. His course need not detain us long, for when you set a beggar on horseback all of us know where he will ride. Within a couple of years he had knocked all the money down, and is now, I believe, conductor to a Brompton 'bus.

It might have been supposed that such a downcome would have lowered Harriette





arrogance and pride, but it was not so. Mr Stubbs, in the handsomest manner, made up her income to four hundred a year, and she migrated to Boulogne, where she was Lady Paramount of the Boarding House which she honoured with her presence. I sincerely pity the poor keeper the life Harriette must have led her.

A boarding house exactly suited Harriette's natural and acquired propensities, for she could eat and drink her fill of scandal, which was as necessary to her existence as as her meals. Possessing an income larger than the majority of the inhabitants of Boulogne, and keeping a carriage of her own, she became gradually to be regarded as an Institution. Perhaps the regularity with which she paid her bills, thus affording a refreshing contrast to the majority of her compatriots, had considerable share in producing this result, but at any rate Mrs Wiggins née Folgate was regarded with a considerable degree of respect by all who had not the honour of her acquaintance.





I



At the boarding house she patronised she was the utter terror of the denizens, and all those who were not forced to stop, through owing a long bill, fled from her sarcasms. am well aware that many of the elderly ladies who take up their permanent abode on the Continent have not in youth led the most immaculate lives, poor old creatures, though they do their best to live respectably, and thus condone the past. They may cheat at whist and ecarté, but where is the old lady who will not do so if she has the chance? But Harriette took a fiendish delight in finding out their weak points, and commenting upon them. Still, she was so artful that no one could tax her with premeditated insult: she only alluded to matters which rendered her hearers uncomfortable, for they knew her too well not to feel convinced that she was acquainted with a great deal more than she chose to say, and in a burst of spleen might blow them all up.

The misfortune was that Harriette had no





blot which they could take advantage of: her married experience had given her a loathing for the other sex, even if calculation had not kept her straight: and her life was too much on the surface for any suspicions to be generated. Worse than all were the airs of pretension she gave herself on the strength of her sister being the Hon'ble Mrs Stubbs, and she rendered an old K. C. B.'s widow, who lived in the house, almost frantic by claiming precedence of her on that account. For a long time Lady Smythson would not give away: but Harriette put the screw on her by making the landlady dun her for her long overdue account; and her Ladyship was obliged to yield the pas, with much inward gnashing of teeth and reviling.

As Harriette was unassailable except with regard to her low marriage, a subject she regarded with the utmost serenity of mind, the only chance of combating her was in trying to find out something to the detriment of her





relatives, which would serve as a means of retaliation. The old tabbies, therefore, put themselves in communication with various of these friends of similar station in life, living in the old court suburb, on the principle that if they were not the rose, they lived near it, and from them they soon procured a large budget of news.

On the memorable evening when the parallel was to be opened, Harriette was more arrogant than ever, and the party determined to show her no mercy. Thus, when she mentioned her sister's name for the first time after dinner, a very perceptible and somewhat impertinent titter ran round the room.

"Well!" Harriette remarked, stamping her foot impatiently, "is there anything very surprising in my having a sister who is married to an honourable ?

"Te, te, te," old Lady Smythson giggled through her teeth, for she was afraid of showing the springs, "I always say honourable is





who honourable does. Is not that your opinion, Mrs Beaumont ? "





Certainly, my dear Lady Smythson, and if some Honourable Ladies behave in a way that reflects disgrace on their position in society, other ladies would act more charitably by not bringing their names up so repeatedly."

Harriette was on thorns, for she saw that they had got hold of something about Blanche; but she was far too clever a general to give them a chance of outmanoeuvring her; so she contented herself by muttering "Contemptible jealousy!" But Lady Smythson was not to be put off the scent: the moment had arrived to avenge all past insults.

"My dear Mrs Wiggins," she said in a bitter-sweet voice, "I think it my duty, though it is most painful, believe me, to tell you that very unpleasant rumours are afloat in the first London circles about your sister's conduct."

Harriette drew herself up to her full height





and tried to look her Ladyship down, but the latter was not to be baulked.

"I assure you that all London," she continued," is ringing with the scandal Mrs Stubbs has aroused by her open liaison with a Mr Gaston. It is true that rumours very detrimental to her character were afloat about her during her residence in Paris, but those were, probably, mere scandal, aroused by her rare beauty, for I believe she monopolized all the charms of the family, did she not, Mrs Wiggins? Now, unfortunately, there is no room for doubt."

If a look could have killed, Lady Smythson would have fallen dead at Harriette's feet. But the imperturbable old lady continued:

"For the last six weeks Mrs Stubbs has hardly appeared once in public without this Mr Gaston. He has been at her house daily, and since Mr Stubbs has been absent on the Continent he rarely quits her side. What can people think?"





"After all," Mrs Waddilove remarked smirkingly, "it is only the old adage of men returning ever to their old loves verified."

"What do you mean?" Harriette gasped. "Perhaps you, Mrs Wiggins, can tell us whether this Mr Gaston was an old flame of Mrs Stubbs. I understand his name was originally Leigh, but he changed it to Gaston when a large, fortune was left him."

It was a thorough shot between wind and water: Harriette lost all her composure, and hastily quitted the room, leaving the tabbies to rub their hands and chuckle over the way in which they had taken down the odious creature's pride; she would n't be so fond of boasting about her honourable sister in future. Dear creatures, bless you for your candour.

When Harriette reached her chamber her mind was in a perfect whirl: that Herbert, whom she had once fancied herself in love with, and who had been expelled the family, should now be by Blanche's side, exercising more influence





over her than ever-oh! the idea was absurd. Still the details were circumstantial enough; she must learn the truth. She, therefore, wrote to Mrs Brien, begging her to let her have all the particulars, and waited most impatiently the confirmation of her suspicions.

It would be hard to say whether Harriette detested Blanche or Herbert more; the former she had hated from her earliest youth for her beauty, and the feeling had grown more concentrated during the last few years, owing to the sensation Blanche produced in society. On the other hand, Herbert had spurned her, and he was the only man for whom she had felt at the most a sickly flame, which had soon gone out again, but left behind a glowing feeling of resentment.

She hardly knew what to do, though one thing was certain; she would rout Blanche and Herbert from their Fool's Paradise. But how to do so was the difficulty: if she precipitated events, Blanche was quite capable of flying with her lover,





and as Herbert possessed so large a fortune, such a step would only entail additional disgrace on the family, but not feed fat her own execrable revenge.



cr



"I have it," she thought to herself; "I must open Mr Stubbs's eyes to the disgrace cast on him by Blanche's levity. Perhaps he Perhaps he may be

induced to challenge Herbert Leigh, and, who knows? shoot him. If he do so, Blanche will lead a life of misery with her husband: if, on the other hand, her lover shoots her husband, an impassable barrier will be raised between them for the future."

This fiendish scheme seemed to Harriette the best she could hit upon for the moment, and the letter she received from Mrs Brien only added fuel to the flame. That amiable lady, now a sincere penitent, and horrorstricken with the vanities of a sinful world, naturally detested Blanche with a pious hatred, and endorsed all that Harriette had already heard. She largely indulged in the





use of the word "fallen," which is a favourite one with the newly converted, who consider the whitewash on their own sepulchre the real fast colour, and from the novelty of their sensations regard all backsliding as impossible. Hence they look with a jaundiced eye on all those who remain without the pale, and are prone to consider levity and wickedness as convertible terms.





Still, Mrs Brien's new religious views appeared to have had a deleterious effect upon her temper though I believe that is not an unusual case-and there was an extra amount of gall in the ink she employed. Possibly, some of the sharpest touches may be ascribed to the loss of Harriette's fortune, which her Ladyship had calculated on as her boys', and which was now lost for ever. Hence, she indulged in various quotations about." sharper than a serpent's tooth is a thankless child," and other stock phrases which eminently





religious people use when their offspring will not follow them blindly.

Poor lady! She had troubles enough with the two boys: when her new husband brought her on the right path, her most earnest desire was that Gerald and Brien should become clergymen, like their step-father. But the lads irreverently regarded him as a humbug, and added to their guilt by telling him so. They were quite determined not to turn parsons, as they termed it; Brien was mad for the navy, Gerald for the army, and their pious step-father supported their wishes strongly. Had he not been a chosen vessel, I should have allowed the mean suspicion to taint me that the reverend gentleman had an eye to his wife's money, which was settled on herself and at her disposal; but such a thought would be highly improper under the circum



stances.



So much is certain, Brien was in the



Mediterranean, Gerald at Sandhurst, and Mrs Brien had nothing to console her save her beloved husband, who, however, had repeated calls to distant parts of the country, as he said, to promote missionary enterprizes. Taking all these circumstances into consideration, it is not to be wondered at that the . mother wrote rather sharply to Harriette, who, however, did not care for that so long as she obtained the information she desired.

That she certainly had, for Mrs Brien, in her solicitude, had come all the way from Leamington to London to find out the truth, and, of course, learned a great deal more than was exactly true. Still there was enough to confirm the suspicions she had formed: for on calling at Blanche's she found that she was absent from home, but, while proceeding on a pious mission to Exeter Hall, saw the guilty couple seated in a brougham so closely engaged in conversation that they took no notice of her.

Had Mrs Brien been a Catholic she would





have made the sign of a cross: but, being now at the very other antipodes, and the lowest of all Low Church women, she drew up her nose almost into her face, and thanked Heaven that she was not such as they. From that her age, at any rate, was an ample pro



tection.



But with all her piety, Mrs Brien, while taking for granted Blanche's guilt, made no attempt to divert her from her evil courses. She deeply regretted her backsliding, and could have shed tears at the thought that one so promising had been led away by the dangerous gift of beauty, but Mrs Brien, in spite of external show, was far more worldly-minded than Lady Folgate had ever been.



She



wisely thought that Mr Stubbs was the proper guardian of his own honour, and recognised the truth of the old adage, "entre l'arbre et



l'écorce."



In short, it was not a business in

which she could interfere.

But she would have been more or less than





a woman, if in writing to Harriette she had refrained from hinting at her suspicions, and the guarded way in which she wrote only added fuel to the flame. Harriette made up her mind at once to her course of action: she would proceed to England and watch the couple, and if her doubts were correct, she would take care that Mr Stubbs was not left long in the dark.

It may be supposed that Harriette, to use a vulgar phrase, was about "to cut off her nose to spite her face." Whatever esclandre she might produce, she ran a very fair prospect of her annuity being stopped, and that was rather an expensive revenge. But she hated Blanche so intensely that she cared not to what length she went or what sacrifices she made to be revenged, and the opportunity of dealing Herbert a mortal blow at the same time must not be neglected. Calculating,

scheming though she might be, Harriette too was in her way a woman, though not of the





most attractive species, and was reckless of consequences to herself, so that she could deal her adversary a crushing blow.



to?



Plot and counterplot! where am I drifting How easily might I have made Harriette a Kohinoor of virtue, doing her utmost to aid her friends and smooth the path of the afflicted. But there are such women in the world, as too many of us know from dire experience, and it is the novelist's duty to hold up every type of the intricate sex he attempts to describe.

It will be alleged against me, I dare to predict, that I have selected only those specimens of female humanity which cast odium on the sex. Up to the present, I grant, we have been unfortunate more or less in the ladies whose acquaintance we have formed, but, patience! as in the pantomime, the effect of the transformation scene is heightened by the gloom that immediately precedes it, so these women of the day, whom I have attempted to depict, are only





intended to serve as foils to my bright par



ticular gem.



A great moralist told us in his bitterness, after being laughed at by Lady Mary Montague, that "every woman is at heart a rake." Such assertion is far too sweeping at the present day, in spite of Divorce Court revelations, and therefore, though the characters I have introduced on my canvas are of a sombre tint, I deprecate the conclusion that I intend to pass a sweeping condemnation on the whole



sex.





CHAPTER II.



THE MOTH AND THE CANDLE.



Ir Blanche really wished to create a scandal and give her husband a tangible cause of offence, she was certainly going the right way to work by her present reckless conduct with Herbert. During her husband's absence on the Continent to fetch Alice she seemed to throw prudence to the winds, and, worse than all, caused herself to be talked about, which is the greatest mistake a woman, with any inclination to do wrong, can commit. Lady Smythson's sneers were only too true: Blanche was the subject of conversation at every club, and many an intense swell envied Herbert






his position with the fair "cweechah" at whose feet they had so long sighed in vain. Intense was their annoyance to see her fall apparently like an over-ripe peach into the arms of a man hardly six months on town.

If these gentlemen, however, had known the real terms on which Herbert stood to her, he would have appeared less an object of envy than the outer world assumed. She was driving him half mad by her sudden changes; at one moment she was the loving, tender woman, seemingly ready to make any sacrifice for his sake, and then, of a sudden, she chilled into propriety and kept him at a distance. He could obtain no definite answer from her as to the future, and he was tossed on a sea of doubt as to the sincerity of her affection. Herbert was being bitterly requited for his treatment of his wife.

In his paroxysms, Herbert more than once thought of flying this dangerous woman, and separating from her for ever. He even had the





courage to keep away from her for a whole day, but the tender reproaches she addressed

to him for his cruelty on his next visit routed all his resolutions. A glance made him again her obedient slave, and Blanche revelled in her victory.

"Foolish boy," the Syren said, as she bent over him and her perfumed curls fell in a transparent cloud over his face, " do you think that I do not suffer as much as yourself because I yielded to the promptings of my pride and gave you up, and with you happiness? We cannot, alas, undo the past: all that is left us is to be to each other as brother and sister, no tenderer tie can unite us, and you must endure patiently to the end."

Oh, Blanche, you can offer me these cold crumbs of comfort-because your heart is not really affected. If your nature allowed you to love as I do, you would abandon everything to secure my happiness. See, what would you lose if you quitted your husband's roof with





me to-morrow? I have a fortune large enough to supply you with every luxury your fantasy can desire—you can liberate yourself from a tie which by your own confession you loatheand what do you resign in exchange for this?— the good opinion of a few heartless beings who will have forgotten your existence in a week. Say you will be mine, dearest, and years of happiness are in store for us!"

And he threw himself passionately at her knees, and his tear-swollen eyes were more powerful advocates than even his impassioned words. For a moment Blanche felt as if she must yield--Herbert had never touched her heart so thoroughly before-but he granted her time for reflection, and she overcame the weakness almost as rapidly as it had assailed her.

"Hush, hush," she said sorrowfully, "I must not listen to such sinful words as these. It is useless your attempting to lead me astray by your visions of future happiness, for I feel





that no woman can be really happy who has deliberately deceived a husband whose only fault is in loving her too well."

If Blanche intended to arouse Herbert's fury by this mention of her husband at a moment so ill-suited, she was perfectly successful in her device. He sprung to his feet as if he had experienced an electric shock, and said in a voice choked by suppressed passion:

"Be it so, then, madam: far be it from me to press any claims of mine against so favoured a rival: I will retire from the field and leave him all the fruits of the victory.'





And he had rushed from the room ere Blanche was able to stop him. She had teased her tassell-gentle till he had burst his silken fetters, but she knew how to lure him back. While Herbert was madly dashing about his library, vowing vengeance on the whole deceitful sex, and swearing an eternal separation from Blanche, a note was put in his hand. It merely contained the words-"Dearest





H., I am going to the opera to-night-come





to my box;" and lo! the lion was tamed, and crouched to sue forgiveness at his mistress's feet.

Blanche did not reveal a single trace of annoyance at his past fury: perhaps she regarded it as a compliment to her powers of fascination. When he placed her in her carriage she bade him come to her the next day, and he was only too glad to receive the invitation.

Thus, then, while some who saw the couple together sneered at the lady, others envied the gentleman, and all pitied the husband: none knew the real terms on which they stood to each other, or the barrenness of the victory Herbert had achieved.

Yet there were moments, as I said before, in which Blanche stood on the brink of the precipice, but fortunately she could take a calm survey of the depth of the fall without undergoing that strange necessity of throwing herself off which assails the stoutest hearted





among us at times. In a word, it was her vanity and not her heart she obeyed: she felt flattered at the idea of having so envied a parti bound to her so tightly, but felt no particular inclination to make any sacrifice on his behalf.

But she went too far; she began to find herself shunned by those persons whose good opinion she most desired to retain and in her



:



pique, and the consciousness that she deserved such treatment, she felt almost inclined to throw off all reserve and take Herbert at his word. After all, she made no such terrible sacrificeit was only her reputation that would go, and that was already so tattered that it afforded but slight protection against the cold breath of calumny. Her fortune was settled on herself: Herbert was a man of large property, and she would not be in a worse position pecuniarily. Then, why did she not obey the impulse ? To tell you the truth, there were two pow



erful reasons.



In the first place, though she affected to de





spise her husband heartily, when talking with Herbert, his unchanging kindness had compelled her to respect him, and she felt that it would be a most graceless return to him if she fled from his roof without some decent pretext. Blanche had a spice of generosity in her composition, and could not endure the idea of inflicting a gratuitous wound on her affectionate husband; though, if he gave her a provocation, she might hold herself absolved.

Secondly and perhaps, after all, this was the primary consideration--she had read Herbert's character thoroughly, and doubted whether she could hold him for any length of time. He was fascinated by her face at present, but did not know all its secrets so well as she didand if in ten years the ravages of time could no longer be concealed, she had no guarantee against his leaving her for a younger woman. here her pride interposed: she could never bear to have it said that a lover had quitted her,



And





though she was almost prepared to desert her husband.

But the greatest doubt that beset her was, whether she really loved Herbert sufficiently to be happy with him, even with every chance in her favour. In vain did she cross-question her heart she could obtain no satisfactory reply. The time had not yet arrived for her to decide between affection and position, and she wisely procrastinated.

Her position was, however, daily becoming more difficult, for Herbert, in his impetuosity, was capable of extreme measures. She almost

wished that abductions were still in fashion, for then she might make a decent show of resistance sufficient to blind the world and yet satisfy her own inclinations.

Altogether, Blanche was in a sad dilemma. She was most anxious to see the effect Alley's apparition produced on her admirer, for a drop of bitterness on her sister's account still lurked





in the cup, but Herbert pressed her more and more to make up her mind before her husband returned. As long, however, as a doubt remained on her mind, she was strong-minded enough to refuse, and all that Herbert could obtain from her was that she would give him a final answer in a couple of months, or at any rate before they left town for the Continent. With this assurance Herbert was compelled to be comforted, and a truce was tacitly signed between them.

And what were Herbert's real feelings during this trial of strength with Blanche? did he really love her with all his heart, and with all his soul, and with all his strength ?--or was he actuated by a mere desire of possession? For my part, I must have drawn his character very poorly, unless my readers can form an opinion for themselves. With Herbert, the present was always in the right, but there were several motives that urged him to the pursuit of Blanche. In the first place, there can be no





doubt that her great beauty was a strong motive, and he would have made any sacrifice to call her his own. Another motive was, re

venge that she should have kicked him over to put up with Stubbs, and a desire to prove to that luckless gentleman that when a man like Herbert Leigh ran against him, he must be distanced in the race. Still, there was very little real love in the business: Herbert was not of a nature to be affected by that glorious passion his was a pseudo-love-a counterfeit presentment, although a very good imitation.



:



It was the same with Jessie : he had only really loved her just before his marriage, when her helplessness had moved his compassion, but how soon the feeling wore off when they were once parted. He was at times surprised to think how utterly he had forgotten a woman without whom he had once thought it impossible to live, and now he was sighing at the feet of another, just as if Jessie had never existed.





: The fact is, that it required adversity to bring out Herbert's better qualities. Had he not made that luckless trip on shore, but sailed in the Ramchunder to Sydney, he would have been a far happier man than now, when every luxury surrounded him. He was growing thoroughly heartless: giving way to dissipation in every form, he had not thought about consequences, for he had learnt by experience that wealth would condone all offences; and when his very vices were regarded by calculating mothers as mere tricks of youth, it is not surprising that he should lay the flattering unction to his soul, and consider himself rather a moral man than otherwise.

One of his most constant companions at the present time was Gerald Folgate, who had just obtained his lieutenancy in the Guards, and was launching out in all the extravagances of London life. His mother allowed him a thousand a year, much against his step-father's wish, for he could have put the money to much bet





ter purpose, he thought, but on these matters the ex-Lady Folgate would submit to no dictation. However much she might revere her spiritual and temporal lord and master, she was a mother, and dearly loved her boys. And, to speak the truth, Gerald tested her love to the fullest extent and made incessant draws on her purse. Not alone that he lived at a rate five times above his incomethat is always expected of a Guardsman-but he had a decided predilection for betting-and had, of course, to buy his experience at a very heavy price. Herbert would gladly have come to his aid, for did he not love his sister? but Gerald had too much pride, and was too young, to accept such offers of service, The old lady, as he fondly though improperly termed her, must bleed, and she did so to an extent that made her purse look in a state of incipient consumption.

Herbert, sly rogue, whose game it was not to effaroucher the world as to his position with





Blanche, till he had her decided answer on the subject of his dearest hopes, was constantly with Gerald, hoping thus to throw the censorious world off its guard. His great desire was to find an opportunity of buying the lad over, and chance threw an occasion in his way.

Just a week prior to Mr Stubbs' return with his fair charge, the Derby was run, and Gerald, in his innocence, managed to make such a book, that he stood to lose fifteen hundred pounds, no matter what horse won. It was hopeless for him to apply to his lady mother, for she set her face most decidedly against horse-racing, and unfortunately knew too well, from her past worldly life, at what period the Derby was run, not to see through any pretence her son might offer for the want of money. Hence, Gerald swallowed his pride, and appealed to Herbert for temporary aid.





My dear boy," Herbert said, frankly, when

the lad had stammered forth his story in a





blushing yet manly way, "how much do you want to set you right?"

And in a second Herbert's check-book was in his hand.





"Well! fifteen hundred pounds will do."

"Oh! nonsense," Herbert said with a laugh,

suppose we say two thousand. I dare say something or another will turn up against you which you had forgotten. Nay, no false pride! there is no one in the world I am so glad to have it in my power to help as yourself."

But the lad would not consent to take the money until he had given Herbert an IO U for the amount, which the latter laughingly accepted, with a determination never to employ it.

Gerald was just of the age to be chivalrous in his friendship, and, of course, soon imparted to Blanche Herbert's kindness. Hence, when my hero again made his appearance before the lady of his love, she received him with beaming looks of affection.





"How can I thank you, dearest Herbert,



sufficiently, for your



kindness to that foolish boy? He must have been ruined had it not been for your generosity. He is dependent on his mother for every shilling, and though I should be glad enough to do all in my power, my money is so strictly tied down, that I cannot dispose of it."

"To afford you any gratification, dearest," Herbert said, as he pressed her hand, which lay tremulously in his own, "I would consider my whole fortune too slight a sacrifice."

Blanche looked him fully in the eyes, but he bore the trial manfully. He did not falter beneath her scrutinizing gaze, and, I doubt not, meant at the moment what he said. Did not Jacques Ferrand ruin himself for a pair of black eyes ?

Again Blanche stood at the cross roads, as Herbert gently whispered, "You have it in your power to make the trial. Consent to be





mine, and I will settle every shilling I possess upon you."

The word of assent rose to Blanche's lips, but by her extraordinary self-control she recalled it. She must put Herbert to the test, so she turned off the delicate subject with true womanly craft.

"No, my dear boy," she said, "you will never purchase my consent by a bribe, however high you may bid. With all my faults, no one shall ever say that I am mercenary. Let us wait, that is all I ask. I have promised you my answer.'





"But cannot you afford me any hope-the slightest hint of its nature? It is a long time to wait for admission into Paradise."

Well, sir, and do you not know that the road to Paradise leads through Purgatory?" she said, with a saucy smile.





No, Blanche, because we are both mem bers of the Established Church."





"Silence!" she said almost sternly, "the path you ask me to take is not one which can lead us to either of those places."

"And she fell back on the sofa, and burst into a passionate flood of tears.





Incomprehensible woman!" Herbert muttered to himself, as he proceeded to his Club, "she is as changeable as an April day. Sunshine and showers in rapid succession. Would that I could dissipate the spell by which she holds me enthralled; for I see that she will never be happy, even if I force her to do wrong. But, alas, I cannot give her up-my whole existence is bound up in hers, we must live and die together."

At the Club Herbert found Gerald awaiting him, in pressing want of five hundred pounds more, which he had lost on the Oaks. Herbert laughed as he gave him the check, saying:

"Mind, my boy, I am ready enough to help you, but I can't stand two thousand a week,

or I should come to the end of my tether."





"My dear fellow, you need not be alarmed, I shall win every shilling back at Ascot. I am in for a real good thing for the Queen's Cup, and mean to put the pot on heavy."

"Which means, I presume, being interpreted, that you will have to come to me again. Well though I am no betting man myself, I can afford the indulgence through you, and you can always command me in moderation."

Strange was it, though, that among the letters Herbert found at his Club was one from an old College friend, imploring the loan of five pounds, to procure a decent suit of clothes which would enable him to enter on a respectable situation. With an angry “pish Herbert tore the letter up, and condescended no reply. Of course, though, he must be economical, after the heavy sum he had advanced Gerald.





All this while, the beloved Harriette was in Town, making her observations. She had





taken a quiet lodging in Craven Street, and never appeared in public without a thick veil. She had been a pretty constant watch on Herbert and his plaything during the past week, and what she had seen fully satisfied her mind, which was naturally prone to evil. She had seen Herbert leaning over Blanche's chair at the Opera: she had been witness of the way in which they rode side by side in the Row, and the manner in which they whispered to each other, as if careless of the outer world. She had noticed Herbert enter her sister's house, and the hour at which he quitted it. In a word, she made a magnificent detective, because the ruling passion that swayed her was hatred.

Armed with this information she returned to her web at Boulogne, biding the hour when she should twine her gossamer threads round the reckless couple. She thought to herself of the picture in which Mars and Venus are





detected by the gods in the net Vulcan has cast over them, and chuckled at the analogy.

Her signal for action was the announcement in the Morning Post that the Honourable Mauleverer Stubbs had returned from the Continent to his house in Park Lane. So soon as this notice met her eye, she sat down and wrote a note of the most affectionate character to Blanche, stating that she intended to come over and embrace both her beloved sisters.

Dear, affectionate creature! had not Blanche just cause to be deeply attached to her?





CHAPTER III.



THE BRAZEN HEAD.



MR STUBBS had returned to England with his fair protegée, whom Blanche received with a hearty greeting. Being fond of variety in any shape, the pretty little nonnette served as a plaything for the time being, and there was something so ineffably refreshing in her simplicity, that her worldly-minded sister studied her as a perfectly novel type of humanity.

Dressed in a tight-fitting gown of fine grey cloth, with a little muslin cap hiding her golden ringlets, and wearing at her side a





coral and amber rosary, which she was incessantly telling, the while she talked and prattled about Holy Mother Mary and Sister Rosalia, Alice formed a strange contrast to the luxurious appointments of her sister's boudoir. Besides, there was something so serenely beautiful about her face, something so touching in her apparent abstraction of self from the world, that Blanche really began to wish she had also secured such a haven, to protect her from all the trouble and turmoil that surrounded her.

But this feeling was only transient, and soon merged into one of intense amusement when Alice began reciting her articles of .faith. She placed implicit credence in all the astounding fables recounted to her by the priests, and gazed with vacant wonder when Blanche evinced any hesitation about swallowing such stories. As for sapping her faith, however, it would have been just as easy to empty the Thames with a bucket, for she had gone through





such a careful course of training that her religion had become a part of herself. Blanche, therefore, however much she might be a sceptic at heart, had the good taste to say nothing which could hurt her sister's feelings, and trusted tọ the influences of the world upon her guileless mind.

The first battle the sisters had was about Alice's clerical attire, which was not at all fitted for London society, and although the little Nun struggled for some time, as if she were by such a step yielding a little finger to the evil one and his snares, Blanche's arguments were so reasonable that they produced the required effect. The gradual transition was most amusing: first, Alice gave ground by assuming a little collar round her neck; then she consented to wear a chain with a cross attached, which Blanche gave her: then, as the chain was too gay for a conventual robe, she changed that for a light grey silk. Gradually, too, one silken tress after the other





peeped out from beneath her coif, until at last that was done away with altogether. At length, when Blanche told her she was going to give a party next week at which she should be introduced, and Herbert would be present, Alley held several mysterious conferences with her sister's modiste, and on the evening of the party there was nothing about her, save her innocence, to distinguish her from the rest of the young ladies assembled.

Herbert was certainly much startled when his glorious Blanche presented his little pupil to him, for she had truly grown out of his memory, and he could not have believed that the pale, head-hanging girl would grow up into such a lovely creature,—the more piquante, as every word showed her perfect seclusion from the world. He was soon seated by her side, learning all her little secrets, and he gradually became so interested in her artless prattle that a dark cloud collected on Blanche's brow, when he remained





so long from her side, and appeared to take a deep delight in listening to her sister.

On closer observation, however, Blanche saw that she had nothing to fear, for Herbert's eyes soon began following her every movement again, and jealously watched with whom she conversed. Assured of her victory, Blanche regained her serenity, and almost began to regret that she had subjected Alley to so bitter, an ordeal, for everything proved that she had not schooled her heart into obedience. the while Herbert sat by her side, her eyes danced with delight, she looked up at him confidently, and seemed to be in ecstacy; but when he moved away at length, and began paying compliments to other ladies, Blanche saw that her eyes restlessly followed him, and she gradually grew dull and distraite.



All



Poor little Alice! you thought four years had conquered your feelings, and that you had forced your heart to resign its fondest hopes. During the entire period of your imprisonment





in the convent you had wrestled and hoped you had conquered; but now, at the first sight of Herbert, you were aroused to the terrible consciousness that you still possessed a heart, which was prepared to surrender at discretion the moment that Herbert called on it to lay down its arms. What a flush of memories suffused your cheek as you recalled those happy hours in the old school-room at Mannheim, and the hopes you nursed that Herbert was, beginning to love you a little.

And then the fearful revulsion, when you learned that Blanche was your successful rival in his love, and, had your guileless heart been open to such a feeling, you almost hated your sister. And that terrible moment when your worst fears were realized, when Herbert was the accepted lover of Blanche, and yet, they were separated.

Now a wall of severance was built up between them, Blanche could never be her rival again, and Alley indulged in delicious dreams,





too soon to be rudely dissipated. Poor foolish child! one month's contact with a pitiless world taught you more than your four years of conventual seclusion.

As it was, Alice enjoyed unalloyed happiness for a fortnight; she saw and spoke with Herbert daily, and whenever Blanche was absent from the room, he seemed to re-assume his old, kind manner. When, however, she was by, a spell fell upon him; he was chilled and reserved, and had it been possible, they exchanged a glance of intelligence, reminding her of the old wretched days at Mannheim. But, of course, that was impossible, Herbert visited the house from old associations-perhaps, too, the little idiot flattered herself her presence in the house was the cause of his daily lengthened visits. Had she been more worldly, she would have been able to explain the state of affairs at once, but how could the child-novice conceive so awful a sin as that





hér married sister should still feel any interest in her old lover?

Before long, however, poor Alley had her eyes opened, when, through a gush of sisterly affection, as I have said, Harriette came over from Boulogne to see Alice and Blanche. She was a terrible wet-blanket to all, but Blanche was really afraid of her; her sharp black eyes in a moment detected the true state of the case, and Blanche felt assured she was plotting mischief, from the kindly interest she evinced in all the family affairs; worse than all, she laid herself out to please Mr Stubbs, and by judiciously flattering the stout gentleman wormed her way into his confidence. Having effected thus much, she unmasked her batteries in the following manner:

How long has Mr Gaston been visiting

you, my dear Mr Stubbs ?



Well, I don't know," the



gentleman



addressed yawningly replied,



" but



I





"Indeed! and may I ask has he always spent so many hours daily in Blanche's boudoir as he now does ?"

"I'm sure I don't know-she-Blanche I mean, do n't care about having me there; she says a married man makes himself ridiculous by playing Darby and Joan with his wife, and so I generally go off to my Club as soon as I am dressed, and we don't meet till dinner time."

"And I believe Mr Gaston visits in the same society as Blanche?

"Oh yes, I fancy so; you see I'm not much of a lady's man myself, and do n't care about going to balls and parties, while Blanche is all the reverse. So you see, I am not sorry to have some one like Herbert to take the trouble off my hands."

There was a lengthened pause, during which Mr Stubbs was apparently making preparations





for a snooze, while Harriette was probably wishing that her stars had blessed her with such a husband. The next best thing was to make mischief, which she accordingly proceeded to do con amore.

"Well, really, I must say you are a most facile husband, and Blanche ought to appreciate you."

"Oh yes!" Mr Stubbs replied with a smile of satisfaction, "I don't think Blanche has much fault to find with me."

"On the contrary, I think she ought to feel most grateful to you. There are not many husbands who would entrust a pretty young wife to the care of so handsome a fellow as Herbert, especially when he had been an old lover of hers."

Mr Stubbs was becoming slowly roused; the musquito stings of suspicion were beginning to pierce through his elephantine hide.





Oh! that's all nonsense," he, however,

chivalrously replied, "Blanche assured me that





she never really cared for the young fellow, and I am sure that she only keeps him about her because he is an agreeable young gentleman, who takes a deal of trouble off her hands."

"What a pity the world is so uncharitable then!" Harriette remarked, with a profound sigh.

Mr Stubbs stared at her for a moment, and then angrily ejaculated:



If



"What the devil do you mean, Harriette? you want to make me uncomfortable, you are going the right way about it. What has the world, as you call it, to do with my private affairs?"

"I quite agree with you that it has no right to interfere but you cannot keep people from talking, and, as you force it from me, I must say that they couple Herbert's name with Blanche's in a manner most painful to me as a sister."

"The devil they do!" said Stubbs, now thoroughly aroused and bounding from his seat.





"Yes, and I regret to say they treat you much worse: for they give you credit for enough good sense to see what is going on, and that, from reasons of your own, you acquiesce in it."

This was sufficient to explode the train: the powder had been damp and slow to catch, but such a fuze as Harriette employed was enough to blow up Turkish service powder. Your slow-blooded men require a long time ere they are roused to jealousy: but once they prove themselves accessible to the feeling, it devastates them, and the traces it leaves behind of its passage are indelible. Let Blanche prove her innocence ever so much, the confidence her husband had placed in her was destroyed: by her levity she had caused him to be regarded as an accomplice in his dishonour, and that would slough and produce a wound which no cautery of renewed affection could heal: So great, however, was the influence Blanche's beauty and imposing presence still exercised





over her unhappy husband, that he felt compelled to watch her closely ere he could convict her.

Blanche very soon noticed the alteration, that took place in him, and easily guessed how it had been produced, but she dared not upbraid Harriette with her perfidy, for that would be a confession of her own guilt. Besides, conscious of her own innocence in deed, if not in thought, Blanche made no alteration in her demeanour toward Herbert, and this only. added fuel to her husband's suspicions. He thought her so infatuated with Herbert that she did not care to conceal her feelings, and, although the openness of her conduct was the most positive proof of her innocence, her maddened husband only regarded it as a defiance she threw in his face.

Such a state of things could not endure long and although Harriette had already re-, turned to Boulogne, the consequences of her visit were too apparent. Stubbs was now con





X



tinually in his wife's boudoir, and could scarce treat Herbert with ordinary courtesy, and, unfortunately, Herbert, thinking he could thus precipitate events, redoubled his attentions to Blanche, which the lady encouraged for the sake of annoying her husband, who, by his constant prowling about her, was becoming a sad bore.

At length, Mr Stubbs grew so infuriated that he point blank told Blanche that Herbert was too constant a visitor to their house, and unless she continued to keep him at a greater distance, he should be compelled to interfere. The blood rushed to her temples as she sprung from her seat and said with concentrated passion:

"Would you dare to insinuate?





"I insinuate nothing," her husband replied with affected calmness; "I merely repeat what all the world in which we move is never tired of asserting that Mr. Gaston pays you attentions which no married woman, who honours





her husband, or recognises her position, would allow."

"And how long, pray, Mr Stubbs, have you begun to listen to what that excellent gossip, the world, tattles ? "

"Since the time, madam, when it began to assert that I was conscious of my dishonour, and called me a cowardly accomplice. You may set what value you please on your character, but by God," he said, as he struck the table violently with his clenched fist, "you shall not trifle with mine."

Blanche, overpowered by this unexpected sternness on the part of a man whom she had hitherto regarded as a puppet in her hands, collapsed into a chair and said not a word.

"Listen, Blanche," her husband went on, taking her hand, "I do not believe you guilty of more than levity, which I own my conduct has in great measure produced: you know me well enough to believe that, if I entertained a





Good, honest Mr Stubbs, I reverence you and pity that you are thrown away on such a heartless woman. And yet you loved her with your whole strength: more now, perhaps, in the moment of her weakness than you had ever done before. Why could she not read your thoughts, or seek support from the tempter in your arms! It is true you are no lady's man, you possess no attractions to please the eye of woman,-but your hidden qualities are a priceless gem, whose value Blanche cannot recognise.

And, yet, to do her justice, she underwent a fearful struggle with her pride: one word from her and the cloud could be dispersedbut she would not utter it. She would not acknowledge her defeat. Hence she replied, with as much coolness as she could muster:

"Mr Stubbs, you have insulted me most





grossly if I had been guilty, as the world judges me, I should not have stayed a moment longer with you-but, as I am conscious of my innocence, I cannot pardon the gross outrage to which you have subjected me. We part, if you please, to-morrow, and shall be henceforth strangers to each other."



:



It was too true, then she was guilty, and now was calmly prepared to leave her husband for the embraces of her lover, defy the world, blast her husband's character, and leave him to be ridiculed. Thousands of ghastly thoughts rushed across his mind; for a second a bloodcloud dazed his eyes, and he revelled in the thought of taking a fearful revenge on the lovely, guilty being before him: were she no longer to be his, at any rate no other man should usurp his place. But it was only for a moment; the poor fellow was a kind-hearted, loving fool, who believed in woman, and suffered the penalty-what good would it do him were he to imbrue his hands in blood, and





prepare for himself a torture in this world and in that to come? Very sadly, then, he said to



Blanche :



:



"Be it so, then we will part never to meet again; I will take care that the blame shall be thrown on my shoulders, and I will shield your character as far as I can. In return, I would ask you, Blanche, to think of mine: do not give the censorious world the opportunity of pointing the finger of scorn at me-God knows I have done my best towards youcould you have eaten gold, I would not have begrudged it to you-I did everything that could conduce to your happiness, and this is the return I meet with. Farewell, and for ever!





And he hurried from the room, afraid to look on her, lest his resolution might break down.

What sudden impulse was it that made Blanche spring from the sofa and gasp, "stay, stay!" as the door closed? It must have




been the prompting of her better angel, but her husband heard it not. Fot a moment she felt inclined to rush after her good, noble husband and implore his pardon on her knees, but her iniquitous pride restrained her. Why should she, the imperious beauty, confess her faults to a man, even were he her husband? Besides, he had no right to upbraid her: she had never interfered with him in any way, and had expected the same consideration from him. She was the best guardian of her own honour, and now he dared to turn on her and accuse her of being false to him! Oh! it was atrocious, unmanly-never could she consent to live in the same house with him again.

At length, calmer feelings re-assumed their sway, and Blanche began to confess to herself that she had treated her husband very ill; he had been all he said to her; he had loved her sincerely, and would have laid down his life at any moment to secure her happiness. What a pity it was she could not return that love:





but it was impossible-still, at the same time, she had no right to outrage his feelings by evincing such a preference for another. Besides, even if she did not love him, there were hundreds of husbands and wives living on the same terms; why should she cause an esclandre, and give the world an opportunity for forming conjectures which must injure herself?

The more she thought on the subject the more interest she began to feel on behalf of her husband, and a nascent regret that she had not learned to know him sooner. Yet it was not too late even now: suppose she threw her pride aside, and told him all that had passed between herself and Herbert, and how she felt such necessity for some being to love, that her thoughts had been unconsciously diverted from her husband. Yes, she would seek him to-morrow and offer him her hand in reconciliation, and she must have an explanation





to recognise the folly of his conduct and marry Alice, who, poor dear girl, doted on him. In that way she would be doing a good deed, and reconcile her conscience.

And, now that she began calmly to analyze her feelings toward Herbert, the film of delusion which had so long invested him with interest, and through which she had regarded him in a distorted medium, began to wear away, and she found that she really did not care for him half so much as she had imagined, when her husband upbraided her for encouraging him.

She had drawn him to her side from a feeling of pique: she wished to be revenged on him for his desertion of her, and when she had thoroughly aroused his old love, throw him carelessly aside like a worn glove. That feeling had gradually merged into one of interest in the handsome man, who laid himself at her feet as the humblest of her slaves, and she had not the heart to punish him in the way





she had at first designed. There was a time, too, she confessed to herself with bitter humiliation, when she would have yielded to him, had he but breathed the desire-but that had passed away on reflection, and she had not again indulged in such weakness.

Still, all these reflections did Blanche good, and she retired to bed with the firm determination of making up the quarrel with her husband the next morning, and living henceforward on a more satisfactory footing. Perhaps, she thought, she might learn to like him better if she saw more of him, and with this resolve she retired to bed-to dream of Herbert, I am sorry to say.

But she did not sleep long ere the sharp crack of a pistol aroused the household, and when the terrified domestics rushed to their master's study, whence the sound proceeded, they found him lying lifeless on the hearth-rug. In one hand he held the pistol with which he had committed the suicide, in the other a mi





niature locket of his wife, the last thing he gazed on in this world.





*



Of course, the jury brought in a verdict of temporary insanity," and the poor husband was laid in the stately mausoleum by the side of his forefathers. His will, when opened, showed that he had left every shilling at his disposal to Blanche.

This event produced a fearful shock on the widow, for she knew too well that she was the guilty cause of it. For weeks she lay in a delirium, accusing herself of the most ghastly crimes, and calling on Herbert as the murderer of her husband. Alice was her sole and indefatigable nurse, and thus none of these ravings became known, though they lacerated the one gentle heart that heard them, who wept bitter tears at the consciousness that all her hopes were blighted.

When Blanche recovered and was able to come down-stairs, she could not be induced to





see Herbert for a long time, and when she did so, he at once perceived that any hopes he might entertain of marrying the widow must be deferred. She was quite a different being : none of that gaiety and lightness of heart which had so distinguished her was now visible, and she seemed to have aged perceptibly. She behaved to Alice more like a mother than an elder sister, and lived in the closest retirement.

At length, when she was able to move, she proceeded with Alice to Tenby, where she hired a house for the winter. She gave Herbert no hopes to encourage him in following her, and, indeed, almost shuddered when he hinted a reference to earlier days. It was evident that the shock of her husband's death had produced a lasting effect upon her, and it might be years ere she recovered from it.

No one knew, however, the blessed consolation she derived from the thought that she had conquered her pride on that fatal night,





and resolved to ask her husband's forgiveness.

And, although the opportunity had not been vouchsafed her for a reconciliation, which might have prevented the catastrophe, her remorse was greatly alleviated by the thought that, in her heart, she had repented of her evil meditations, and determined on changing her course of life.





CHAPTER IV.





HOPES AND FEARS.



BUT, my dear Alice, it is too absurd of you to go back and bury yourself in that gloomy old convent, and see not a soul but snuffy sisters and droning padres, who do nothing but eat sugar-plums and drink coffee all day long; why not stay with me? You can be quite happy here, and we can look out for a husband for you."

Alice blushed perceptibly, for she had not conquered that bad habit, and she shook her head as she replied:





dearest Blanche, or try to dissuade me from my design. I am convinced I am acting rightly in professing, as I am not fit for the world, or the world for me, and I feel lost in this turmoil. I long to get back to my quiet nook and my little garden, where I was so happy till I took this wicked notion into my head of seeing what the busy world was like."

"Well, child, and what fault have you to find with it? Granted it is full of trouble and care-and you are too young, fortunately, to know them in their reality-we have no right to run away from our duties, or think ourselves staunch against temptations, because we give them no chance to try us."





'Well, Blanche, I grant I am a coward, and feel that, if I tried to conquer those temptations which await me, I should succumb. Then do not blame me if I attempt to escape from them, and pass my life in a pleasant state of contemplation, which I feel sure will secure me the reward I long for-peace of mind."





"For shame, girl," said the high-spirited





widow, no woman ought to confess herself a coward, and you know nothing of what you propose giving up. You were not sent into this world idly to pore over your beads, and prepare preserves, the only occupation you will have in a convent. No-women are here to do, to dare, to suffer.'





"But why should I undergo this ordeal? I have already suffered, Blanche, more than I can explain to you. Ever since I woke to a consciousness of womanhood, I have been tortured by an infinity of feelings which I cannot describe, but which crush me by their weight. While secluded in my convent I successfully resisted these feelings, and, indeed, hoped I had found peace at last. But, when I emerged into the gay and dazzling world, they returned with an intensity which renders me truly anxious to seek my haven of refuge again. By earnest prayer I may discipline my wayward mind, and, that once effected,





I will never lay myself open to temptation again."

"Poor child! you only undergo the common lot of woman: there is a void in your heart which requires filling, you feel that instinct for mating which women share in common with birds. And why should you not obey that instinct? Oh! I know the argument you would use, but,. mignonne, I have read your heart as easily as I do this book. I know every thought that agitates you, and I know too the only way in which your longing can be satisfied. You love, and you think your love is unrequited, and so, instead of striving to master your feelings, you wish to convert them into a religious impulse, which you think will guard you from yourself. But suppose, Alley, the day should come when you discovered the hollowness of that religion you now deem so perfect, or, after years of serenity, the heart you fancied you had trained so well were to rebel, and the old wicked thoughts of love





were to return with redoubled force, after breaking down the dam which kept them back? What agony you would endure then ; enforced solitude would become a horror



your



to you, and you would pine away like a flower removed from the beneficent rays of the sun, and confined to a gloomy cellar."

What strange, wild thoughts started across Alley's mind on hearing her sister speak on this subject. For months she had wished to recur to it, and discover how much truth there was in Blanche's ravings; and yet she had not dared to allude to it, through fear of destroying her last hope. Now, Blanche had herself referred to it in an unmistakeable manner : the allusions she made could only be pointed at one man, and a warm gush of gratitude poured over Alley's heart when she fancied she saw light at last.

"I have thought for a long time on this subject, Alley," Blanche continued, " and I do not consider you will be acting wisely in





immuring yourself in a dungeon until you receive some certainty of Herbert's feelings. I can tell you candidly that, up to the present, you are the last woman in his thoughts, and he is absorbed in one person who never can be his. I hope, however, that when he is thoroughly convinced of the hopelessness of his desires, I may induce him to think of the girl who has been so long and so devotedly attached to him. And I believe I am justified in taking this step, for I regard myself now as your mother, and feel a tender interest in my child's welfare."

Now all doubts were removed, and Alley cast herself with passionate cries of delight upon her sister's bosom. She sobbed forth all the secrets of her bursting heart and the agony she had endured so long: she thanked Blanche again and again for the noble sacrifice she had made for her, and blessed her for her goodness. But Blanche soon put a stop to her wild ejaculations.





My poor girl, you exaggerate the sacrifice you fancy I am making for you, for, believe me, I would never consent to marry Mr Gaston, however much he might desire it. Any warmer feelings I might once have entertained toward him have utterly died away. Ishall never marry again after the awful termination of my first experiment. But I really feel grieved you and for Herbert: for you, because you have endured your great sorrow so patiently



for



:



and unrepiningly for him, because I feel I have treated him unjustly, and owe him a recompense for the past. If, then, I can induce him to listen to my propositions, I shall be doing a good deed to both parties, and, therefore, if you will leave the matter in my hands, I will do all I can, You may be quite sure I shall not compromise your maidenly dignity in any way, but I hope to set matters on a right footing. So now, dear, put on your bonnet and shawl and we will go for our drive."





Blanche was as good as her word and wrote Herbert a note, begging him to come down, as she wished to speak to him.

"At last, at last!" Herbert muttered to himself as he crushed the note convulsively in his hands. He had been repeatedly on the point of hurrying down to Tenby and urging his suit on the widow, but the circumstances under which they had parted were so painful that he felt a reluctance to intrude on her grief. He left it to time to cure the wound her feelings had endured, and fancied she would soon be willing to console herself with him. This note, then, seemed to confirm his views. Since Blanche had been away from him he had grown more madly in love with her than ever: and he felt so certain that she shared the same feelings, that the arrival of her invitation caused him no surprise. It had been long delayed but he would speedily remove all her scruples, when once he had re-assumed his old familiar spot by her side,





and no jealous husband was in the way to prevent his success.

It may be assumed, then, that Herbert lost no time in hurrying to Tenby and waiting on the widow. Blanche received him kindly, but there was no confusion about her-no blush when he pressed her hand and led her to herchair.

"Coquetry as usual," Herbert thought to himself; "the widow wishes to be wooed and won."

Under this impression he began practising his most successful devices to win a smile from her, but she listened with evident restraint, and, in spite of himself, he began to grow piqued. What could she mean by sending for him and then treating him in this cold manner?

"Dearest Blanche," he said in a tone of gentle reproach, "I did not expect this treatment from you. I came here on the wings of love, hoping to receive the reward I have so patiently awaited, and now you treat me with a coldness which I do not think I deserve.”.





"Hush, hush, Herbert," she said mournfully "there must be no question of love between us; a terrible barrier has been raised to separate us, and such an union would be impious."





I am at a loss to understand your meaning, Blanche. How are circumstances altered from those happy days when you induced me to believe that I was not an object of indifference to you? And now that no obstacle exists, when we are free to wed, you turn from me."

"Oh, Herbert, this is cruel of you, and you force me to recur to a subject which causes me the deepest grief. Do you know that my poor husband killed himself because he suspected we were too fond of each other? In my petulance I refused to break off my association with you at his bidding, and I shall never know a moment's happiness again. Oh! Herbert, we are both morally guilty of his death!"

"Your nerves are over wrung, Blanche, and in your solitude here you naturally exaggerate





the effect of your quarrel with your husband. Come back into the world and I will help you to dissipate such gloomy thoughts. Believe me, dearest, years of happiness are in store for you if you will but promise to insure my felicity. I only live for you, and have scarce been able to await this blessed moment: had I known that you were yielding to such morbid feelings, I should have come to remove them long ago."

And he sunk on his knees before her and looked up in her face beseechingly, then fervently kissed her hand and strove to win a smile of assent from her. Long too she gazed on him -what thoughts agitated her it is impossible to say; but at length she threw her arms around his neck and kissed him passionately on the forehead."No! Herbert, no! you can never be more to me than a brother!" she sobbed forth.

The sacrifice was a terrible one, she felt, and more than once she thought it greater than she





could make. But she resisted with all her

strength, and finally resumed the mastery over herself.



'



Herbert," she at length said, as she slowly wiped away her tears, "I have had a happy dream since we have been parted, which, if it can be realized, would make you my brother indeed."

I cannot, I will not consent to play so passive a part-you must be mine: I have waited for this hour to come, and I will not consent to give you up. Cruel woman, do you think I have no heart in my bosom-do you imagine I can so easily dismiss the image of one whom I adore as my divinity? Blanche, I have never loved but you; and if you refuse to comfort me, you condemn me to a life of misery. My existence is bound up in yours: when away from you I can hardly breathe: but your presence lifts me into Paradise. You have no right to refuse me; you are mine in the sight of Heaven, and I will never consent to resign you."





"Oh! Herbert, Herbert, you know not how you torture me. I would give the world to console you, but I dare not; I should feel that my husband would burst his cere cloths, and come forth from the grave to forbid such a marriage. Tempt me no more, my answer must ever remain the same.'





"Heartless, unfeeling woman! you revel in the thought of the misery you cause me. Oh! Blanche, Blanche! you take a bitter revenge for my slight of you.'

"As Heaven is my witness, no!" the startled woman screamed: "such thoughts never occurred to me. No, my good, darling Herbert, had not my conscience been engaged, I would too gladly have promoted your fancied happiness. But you are young and rich, Herbert; you will soon grow over your disappointment at not winning a poor faded woman like myself. See, here, my hair is turning grey-this is the toy you pine for, my foolish boy, and it would break in your grasp within a week.





No, Herbert, seek some younger and happier companion through life; I am not worthy of you, and were I weakly to consent, a long life of misery would be in store for both of us. You fancy you love me now, but in heart I am old enough to be your mother: my feelings are seared, my life-sap is dried upthink what I shall be in ten years with this load of remorse upon me, and thank your God. that I have sufficient mastery over myself to act for your welfare."



:



Herbert threw himself into a chair and wept bitterly the disappointment was too great, and yet he recognised the truth of Blanche's objections. She was entirely altered; that beauty which had fascinated him was fading visibly away: her full fair neck had fallen in; the lustrous eyes were set in a hollow mourning ring; it was no longer the divinity he had learned to love; the idol was shattered-and yet he reverenced the fragments.





"be reasonable, and learn to look upon me as your fond and anxious sister. You and Alice are all I have left to care for in the world, and I would make any sacrifice to see you both happy. And you could be so, believe me; that she could soon be brought to love you I am convinced, and is it not worth the trial to gain the priceless booty of her virgin heart? She has never yet failed in her fealty; she has not gone to the altar with a lie on her lips as I did, and for which I have been so bitterly punished. Oh, Herbert, for my sake, try if you cannot love her well enough to make her your wife, and then I shall feel as if I had a claim for forgiveness."



r



No, no, it cannot be," Herbert passionately ejaculated: "Good God! what do you take me for?—with my ardent protestations of love for you still glowing on my lips-you bid me coolly repeat them to another; to a girl I never thought of, who regards me with indifference, perhaps with disgust."





"Herbert, you force me to an avowal I would gladly have been spared, but I must tell you that, from the first moment Alice saw she gave her whole heart to you. I, too, you, was weak enough to fancy that you were playing false to her, when my marriage with your was broken off-but I know better now. Would that I had done so then."

Herbert was startled at this confession, and yet, when he began to reflect, it cleared up many points that had puzzled him. Little Alice in love with him-ready to become a nun, because she could not have the man on whom she hung with such devotion: the thought almost took his breath away. The idea certainly flattered him in his heart of hearts, but he made a bold stand against it.

"It is impossible, Blanche," he said, firmly ; "I feel sorry for Alice, but I have no love now to bestow on any one, since my great disappoint

ment. You I really loved and if it must be



:



so-if I cannot obtain the fruition of my dear





"



est hopes, do not ask me to open my heart so

soon to another love; give my wounds time to



cicatrize. It



may



be that absence from you



but if I remain near you



will efface these painful reminiscences; and I



may



be so;



trust it I shall be unable to gain the mastery over myself. I will wait, and seek to drown my grief; and when I find that I can reënter your presence without a regret for the past, I will return to you. Till then farewell!" "And Alice, may I bid her hope?"

"How can I say; can I tell what my feelings will be? to judge by my present condition, I should fancy that they are unchangeable; that my heart cannot find room for any image but yours."

"Poor boy, poor boy!" Blanche said, shaking her head, “what creatures of habit men are they are attracted by a pair of sparkling eyes, and fall into a frenzy if they cannot call them their own and yet they have no sooner secured them than they grow tired of their





plaything, and long with equal ardour for a new one. Now, you are breaking your heart, because you have come here to be disappointed about the object of your ambition; and yet, in six months' time you will feel the same vexation about some face far lovelier than mine. You shake your head, but you know it is perfectly true, and all I ask is, that when you find yourself giving way to such a feeling, you will consider yourself perfectly cured, and can come back to me heart-whole. Love is, after all, very much on the homoeopathic principle, like cures like."

Blanche spoke jestingly, for she wished to rouse the young man from his apathy, but the words were in startling contrast to her feelings. Now that she felt she was losing Herbert for ever, by some strange contradiction she began sincerely to love him, and she felt grateful that he was going away so soon, and thus temptation would be removed from her.

"You will see Alice before you go, Herbert ?





she is grown so beautiful, so heavenly, if I



may



dare to use the term, that her face will be imprinted on your heart and accompany you wherever you go."

My readers may imagine with what delight Alice welcomed Herbert, and how he regarded her with a considerable amount of interest, now that he was possessed of her life-secret. In spite of himself he felt a degree of pleasure at the thought that this fair creature could be his at the asking, and in his heart he almost turned traitor to his love, when the beautiful girl hung on his arm, and gazed fondly in his face, as they walked along the sands.

But he must tear himself away; the consolation was only temporary, and every now and then he had a gnawing pang at his heart when he thought of Blanche, whom he had so certainly regarded as his own. As for Alice, she was in the seventh heaven of delight; to her vivid fancy every obstacle was removed, and though she felt a slight spasm of fear





when she learned that Herbert was going abroad and away from her, it was such a glorious consolation to think her sister was no longer a rival, that she soon overcame the feeling, and never again mentioned the subject of the convent.



:



And Blanche! if Alice could have seen her, as she knelt with her head buried in the pillow, and sobbing as if her heart would burst, she would have regretted that such a sacrifice had been made for her. It was too true Blanche, who had prided herself on having no heart, who had attracted men by her sensuous beauty, only to revel in the thought of her triumph, now found herself fearfully punished. The only man she ever really loved-and that, only since her thoughts had been chastened by the catastrophe of her husband's death-she had voluntarily resigned ----never would she be clasped to his breast, never could she confess her love. Henceforth her life would be one long torture death





could be her only relief-and she cared not how soon it came, if Alice were settled in life.

Such, at any rate, were the morbid thoughts in which Blanche indulged, as she lay, that long autumn afternoon, grieving over the past and regarding the future through a Claude Lorraine glass. It is very possible that she really believed that misery was her allotted portion for life; but we, who remember the widow of Ephesus, may be permitted to entertain a doubt as to the permanence of her repinings.

While Blanche was striving to tutor her heart in rebellion against her lover, there were other influences at work, which paralyzed her efforts. Having no other companion in her solitude than Alice, the conversation turned more frequently than was wholesome for Blanche, upon Herbert. Together they traced their intimacy with him from the first moment he joined their family circle at Mannheim, and the sisters outvied each other in invoking





reminiscences of the happy hours they had passed in company with him. Their conversation was, in fact, a succession of "Do you remember?" and there is no doubt these re

peated allusions to the period when Blanche had such a fair prospect of felicity outspread before her, did much in supporting the flickering flame, which kept her heart from growing utterly dead.

But she was wrong in giving way to these dangerous reminiscences, for they undid all her resolves. Whenever she was alone she fell into a habit of brooding over the hours when she had acquired a certainty that Herbert loved her, and the mad sacrifice she had made to her pride. To counteract these influences, she diligently summoned up the life she had passed in company with her husband, and was wont to sum up all his good qualities, which demanded the expiation she offered his memory by refusing to marry Herbert. Unfortunately for Mr Stubbs, nothing in life





became him so well as his quitting it even his unremitting kindness to Blanche principally emanated from the inherent selfishness to which he did homage. He hated cross words and black looks, and it was far more comfortable in his ménage when Blanche remained in a good temper.



His



I grant that Mr Stubbs loved his wife, but it was after his own peculiar fashion. love can be best translated by the French word aimer, which is equally applicable to a lovely girl and to a ragoût: in a word, he was fond of his wife just as he was of a good dinner and other luxuries belonging to his position in society. Possibly, Blanche might have changed him had she taken the pains: but she had a dislike for her husband, almost from the day of their marriage, and took no heed to conceal it. If she had known what frenzy would at last possess him, matters would have been different; and her bitterest regret ever was that she allowed affairs to reach such a fearful point,





when she had it in her power to prevent



them.



Altogether, Blanche was in a sad state of mind, and by her persistent solitude only augmented the evil. Harriette, dear, kind creature, had offered to come and reside with her sister, and take the trouble of her household off her hands, but Blanche, loathing her as the final cause of the catastrophe, could not endure the thought of even seeing her. Still, feeling that it was a mania with her sister to render all connected with her unhappy, Blanche did not punish her by withholding her annuity. That was still paid, and so Harriette had the best of the bargain. She had rendered Blanche wretched, utterly routed Herbert, and was patiently awaiting the time when Alice would come of age, to commence her machinations upon her.

And here we may safely leave the two sisters in their Welch hermitage, while we follow the fortunes of Herbert Gaston.





CHAPTER V.



A CURE FOR THE HEART-ACHE.

HERBERT, on leaving Tenby, was a prey to the most varying emotions. In the first place, like all men, he was naturally selfish, and did not like the idea of giving Blanche up, after having considered her his own. His pride, too, was decidedly called into play, and it seemed to him that Blanche had grossly insulted him by refusing his hand and heart. She had no right to do so, he felt, after all that had passed between them: fate had evidently thrown them in each other's way, and though an obstacle had been interposed,





that was now removed. At that moment a woman dared to have a will of her own, and giving way to foolish, sickly scruples, snatched the tempting reward from him.

Of course he would be revenged-but how? By a natural revulsion his thoughts reverted to Alice. He could not believe but that Blanche still loved him in her heart, in spite of her protestations, and the severest punishment he could inflict on her would be in marrying her sister. But there was plenty of time for that it was plain that he could call the girl his own whenever he chose to express his



:





lordly will, and the idea of a continental tour en grand seigneur soothed his offended pride. He would make himself talked about at foreign courts, and then perhaps Blanche would regret what she had thrown away so petulantly.

The only question to decide was, whither he should wend his way; the world was all before him, where to choose, and he hesitated between Paris, Rome, and the Nile, for his winter





quarters. Chance, however, most unexpectedly directed his movements, for almost the first • person he stumbled over in London was his old friend, Bertie Dymoke, whom he had not seen since he left Heidelberg, and who riotously expressed his joy at the meeting.

Of course they dined together, as Englishmen always do, even if they meet in the Sahara, and before long were interchanging their experiences since they parted. There is nothing in life so pleasant as meeting an old college friend, whom you have not seen for years, and talking over the follies of youth; that is to say, always assuming that neither of you has gone down in the world since the last meeting, for if that is the case it produces an uneasy feeling, lest one should demand a service which the other cannot well refuse for the sake of old lang syne, and, in consequence, you heartily wish all college friendships to the deuce.

Herbert and Bertie got on swimmingly to





gether, for there was nothing of this sort to be . apprehended. Bertie, in the first place, was in no want of money, and had he been so Herbert could have assisted him without feeling any inconvenience. So they talked away about Heidelberg, drifting off now and then to Shrewsbury, and soon felt as if they had not been separated for an hour.

At length Herbert expressed his intention of travelling, and with it the difficulty he was in as to whither he should go. Bertie laughed with delight.





Well, that is famous! as you do not know what to do with yourself, I can offer you some capital amusement. What do you say to coming with me to Venice?"

"My dear Bertie, if you invited me to go with you to Hades, I am just in the frame of mind to say 'done.' But, why say



Venice ?"



"What, don't you know? but, of course, you don't, as I omitted to tell you. Well, you





must understand, then, that when I returned to Oxford from Heidelberg, I made up my mind to read hard, and become a credit to my College. But, somehow, what with hunting in winter, and boating in summer, I never found a moment to spare for my books. I went up for my examination, but the fellows were too dull to appreciate my numerous good qualities. If they had questioned me as to the points of a horse, I should have gained a first-class, but they confined their attention to the classics, in which I was not so well up. Short and good, they sent me back again, and I made up my mind to cut the University. I am sure that the dons sincerely regretted my loss, but I was staunch. While casting about for some profession, I suddenly bethought me that I had a maternal uncle, Count von Adlerberg, high up in the Austrian service. So I found my way to Vienna, and you now see me a lieutenant of an artillery battery stationed in the city of the Isles, with the magnificent pay of thirty





pounds seven shillings per annum, paid in bank-notes, which suffer a heavy discount in exchanging. But I have enough of my own to keep me comfortable, and I am as happy as the day is long."

The idea seemed to Herbert feasible enough; still, before making up his mind, he asked:



ઃઃ



Suppose, my dear Bertie, I accept your offer, what is there to do in Venice ?-life 's rather slow there, is it not?

"Do! God bless you! you will not have half enough time to do all you will find there. My comrades are the finest fellows in the world, and though I cannot, unfortunately, offer you any prospect of fighting, I can promise you the soldier's next best enjoyment, any quantity of love. Ah, my boy, when you once get among our signoras, you will not escape again so easily."

Herbert shook his head very dolorously.

"Ah, bah!" Dymoke said with a hearty





laugh, "so she has jilted him, has she? never mind, old boy, you can soon get over that—



We





"If we cannot make love to the lips that we love, We can always make love to the lips that are near.' "So now I won't hear another word against it," Dymoke rattled on; "I am due with my regiment three weeks from this date: I shall have settled all my business here by the end of the week, and intend to start on Monday next. So pack up exactly one portmanteau, no more will I allow you, and I can promise you as jolly a life as ever you enjoyed-something far different from pacing the flagstones of this stupid London. By the way, you remember Jones ? "

"Of course I do, and have often tried to find him. I long to talk with the dear old fellow about our happy days at Heidelberg, and the gambling house at Baden. I am afraid, though, that he has come to a bad end."





I am glad to say he has not, and you





will soon have an opportunity of seeing him; he has become quite a steady fellow, and is hospital staff-surgeon to our brigade. I found him kicking about London and doing no good, so I persuaded him to come out with me. My uncle soon procured him an appointment. He is the darling of the regiment, and the soldiers all swear by him. He is now with headquarters at Verona, but as soon as he hears of your arrival at Venice, he is safe to come over, and then we will have a lark together.'

The prospect was not altogether a bad one, and Herbert soon agreed to accompany Bertie at the appointed time. There was a long argument between them, however, as to the mode in which they should travel, for the soldier naturally wanted to have as few impedimenta as possible, while Herbert had that snail-like propensity peculiar to Englishmen, of carrying his house upon his back, wherever he might go. In one matter he was inflexible, he would travel in his own carriage, for he did not like to be





confined in his movements by the inexorable bell of the railway train. Besides, they had plenty of time before them, and Bertie at length consented to his friend's weakness with a pitying shrug of his shoulders.

A gentleman holding such an important station in society as Herbert, or, at any rate, as he fancied he did, of course could not leave London without making many arrangements about the management of his estates during his absence. This occupied much of his time, but he had also a very trying business in attempting to put Gerald Folgate straight, who had gone from bad to worse.

Gambling had become a confirmed mania with the unhappy boy: racing had palled on him as not sufficiently exciting, and there was hardly an evening in which he did not "shake his elbow" to a most expensive tune. To Herbert's surprise, however, he had made no further application to him for funds, and yet it was evident that he must need large sums of Adr. Bil.





money to cover his repeated losses. His mother had become completely estranged from him, owing to his vicious propensities in some measure, but, in reality, through the pious instigation of Mr Brian. She still paid him his thousand a year regularly, but would not advance another shilling, and it was but a drop in the ocean of his embarrassments.

Herbert had a sincere liking for the lad, even though his feelings toward Blanche had in a measure changed. At first he had loved him for his likeness to the object of his affection, and his feelings underwent no change toward Gerald. Earnestly he strove to wean him from his fatal propensity, but argument was in vain Gerald listened stolidly, but could not be induced to make any promise of amendment.



:



My dear boy," Herbert said to him in their parting interview, "you cannot have calculated the consequences of your reckless conduct. Remember that your mother's large





fortune is entirely at her own disposal, for Sir Norton only provided for the children of his first marriage, and left his widow to divide his property between yourself and Brian. You have told me repeatedly that your step-father has designs against you, and yet you persist in a course of conduct which gives him a fatal power."

Gerald tossed his head scornfully, as if caring little for any injury Mr Brian might do him. Herbert's patience, however, was not exhausted.

"From what I have seen during the last few months, you must be spending at the rate of ten thousand a year. Pardon me, dear Gerald, if I ask you where you obtain your resources? for I fear lest you have fallen into the hands of the Jews, and if so, the termination of your career can be predicted."

Gerald uttered a strident laugh.

"Did you not say that my mother's money was at her own disposal? Then, do you





expect that any one will advance me money on my chance of an inheritance, when the terms on which we stand to each other are so obvious? I tried that long ago, and when I found that it was of no avail, I had but one resource.”





The poor lad hid his face in his hands, and burst into a passionate flood of tears. "My sister Blanche!" he stammered. "What!" Herbert shouted, starting from his seat, "you have not involved her in your ruin ? Oh! Gerald, Gerald, I did not think you would have acted in so unmanly a way. But, tell me at once, how much has she let you have?





"Ten thousand pounds" was the reply, "and every shilling is gone."

Herbert was in a sad state of perturbation, and hardly knew what to do for the best. He would gladly have made a sacrifice himself, if he could save Blanche from being stripped of every shilling, but he felt that any





money he advanced Gerald, would beswallowed



up



in the general vortex. At length he turned to the unhappy boy, and said:

"Have you any idea how much will relieve you from your present embarrassments ?"

A ray of hope shot across Gerald's face, as he replied,

"I hardly know, but I think that five thousand pounds would do."

Herbert reflected for a moment, then he said:

"On two conditions I will advance you the money. The first is, that you promise, on your honour, never to apply to Blanche for another shilling, the second, that you give up play of every description. To do this, you must sell out at once, and go abroad for a time. If you pledge me this, I will give my solicitor instruc tions to pay your debts, of which you will supply a list, and you can give me a bond, to repay the ten thousand pounds out of the money your mother may leave you."





Gerald jumped up and pressed his hand



fervently.



rr



Willingly do I give the promise, Herbert, for I loathe the life I am now leading. You can form no idea what agony I endured when I was so cowardly as to apply to my sister, but after the first attempt, and finding that she advanced the money so readily, I was led on and on, till the sum I obtained from her reached the enormous amount I told you. I would have given anything to rend the fetters that held me, but it was impossible. Now, thanks to your generous aid, I am in a position



.



to do so, and you have my word that I shall



not break out again.



Herbert shook his head sadly, for he knew that promises are but of little avail against a dominant passion for play. Still, he expressed no doubts on the subject, and heartily pressed Gerald's hand, as if convinced of his sincerity. The necessary business was soon transacted: the commission was eagerly purchased by the





next aspirant on the list, and Gerald was once



again a free man.



Still, Herbert thought it his duty to write to Blanche, and warn her against the consequences of the affection she had displayed toward her brother. He showed her how she had only fostered Gerald's passion for play by her ill-timed generosity, and in a few words described the steps he had taken to cure the evil. The concluding paragraph of his letter ran as follows:



st



"I have taken your advice, and am about to carry my wounded heart for cure to the sunny skies of Italy. I shall spend a winter at Venice, and intend to enter into all the dissipation of that city. I hold you answerable for all the consequences, for you have driven me from my home and forced me into temptation. Still, dearest Blanche, one word from you will recal the truant, and if ever you should be swayed by those feelings which apparently influenced you when we met for the





second time in London, you may be sure of a response in my heart."

Blanche was wise enough to make no reply to this appeal, though it cut her to the soul. She knew Herbert too well not to feel convinced that his heart would soon be cured by absence, and yet the thought produced a painful impression. She explained the feeling to herself by the regret Alice would endure at her hopes being thus frustrated, by finding herself condemned to a conventual seclusion. But, in truth, Blanche was actuated by a very different feeling there was a gnawing jealousy at her heart, which, if analyzed, would have been found to be a detestation of the idea of Herbert marrying anybody, so long as she could not have him all her own. It was no very difficult task for her to school her mind into the idea of Herbert marrying Alice, so long as he was absent from her side, but if the hour of trial came, her resolutions would probably be routed.



:





Herbert waited anxiously for a summons from Blanche, which would defer his departure, but, as we have seen, none came. Vexed by her prudery, as he inwardly termed it, he offered no objection to Bertie's proposal that they should set out at once. "After all," he thought to himself, "if I grow tired of the Austrians, I can easily go elsewhere." But he was destined to keep their company rather longer than he had calculated on. He left London in November, 1847, and the Ides of March were approaching.

They were accompanied as far as Paris by Gerald, who, full of his good resolutions, had broken with all his old intimacies, and meant to reside for a time in France. Το most of us it would seem as if the young man was merely escaping from Scylla to be submerged in Charybdis, but there would be no merit in his victory over temptation, if, like a coward, he fled from it. Herbert left him here with some doubts lingering on his





mind as to his eventual reformation, but consoled himself with the reflection that he had done all in his power.

There must be something very glorious, I fancy, in travelling in one's own carriage on the Continent and for my part I regret the deposition of the diligences by the swiftly flying steam-engine, which prevents you forming any deliberate idea of the scenery through which you are passing. I allow that the old Messageries caravan had its disagreeables, and I never think without a shudder of the eight-and-forty hours I spent one bitter winter on the road from Paris to Strasburg, where the hosts seemed to have taken a lesson from their English brethren, and managed to serve the potage just at the moment the horses were put to.

On the other hand, I have had the good fortune to ascend the banks of the Rhine by land, stopping to "do" all the best bits of scenery, and I confess that it was a rich treat.





Not being tied for time, our party stopped whenever they pleased, and enjoyed themselves thoroughly, and I learned the Rhine Valley by heart, which it is impossible to do by dashing up against stream on board a fast steamer. The by-ways of the Rhine are far superior to the beaten track: and yet hundreds yearly ascend the river, and have no idea of what they leave on either side of them.

But these considerations do not apply to Herbert, who was bowling along through France, which, as a general rule, is the ugliest country on the Continent. I prefer the Russian steppes, for, though they are frightfully monotonous, the scene impresses you with a feeling of immensity. In France, however, there is nothing which may be called picturesque, although there are many exquisite bits within the tourist's reach. It is a decided improvement for travellers that railways have been so generally introduced.

Our travellers toiled across Mont Cenis, little





thinking that red-trowsered Frenchmen would be taking the same route, within scarcely 12 years, and descend on the fat plains of Lombardy like a swarm of locusts. It was a dreary drag, but they were amply compensated when they reached Milan, and were able to wash off the dust, and find an opportunity for employing the dear old Teutonic tongue.





CHAPTER VI.



VENICE.



OUR travellers, after making a considerable diversion from the direct road laid down by Murray, at length reached the little town of Mestre from Treviso, in Herbert's travelling carriage. Lombardy is not a country to traverse at break-neck speed, for there are so many nooks and corners deserving attention; and though Dymoke fiercely objurgated any delay, and declared that he should over-stay his leave, Herbert proved so clearly that they had ample time before them, that he at length reluctantly assented, and they visited every place worth




seeing, and of them there is abundance in Lom



bardy.



Much did Bertie chaff Herbert, however, about the use he would derive from his carriage in Venice, and repeated the old well-worn story about Lord Byron and the horse; but Herbert was not to be baulked of his humour, and, to tell the truth, Master Bertie had no particular objection to travelling en grand seigneur. And Italy is about the last European country in which that luxury can be indulged in. There the landlords still make a decided distinction between the traveller who arrives with his own coach and the one who drives up humbly from the railway station in a citadine; and though they are often horrified at finding they have treated an English milor like a bagman, they compensate for the loss of dignity they have occasioned him by fearfully augmenting their charges.

To Herbert, who had never before visited the sunny plains of Lombardy, the journey





was a succession of delights: and, as far as he was enabled to judge by cursory survey, the inhabitants had no cause to complain of the Austrian rule. The fields were highly cultivated: the roads were magnificently kept up: the rural population were apparently happy and contented; in a word, nothing seemed to predict that within a short three months these rich plains would be irrigated with blood, and produce a crop of sterile laurels.

Mestre was a very pleasant type of an Italian



:



suburban town and while the carriage was being put by till wanted again, Herbert was never weary of gazing on the animated groups that filled the market-place. On proceeding towards the canal that runs into the Lagune, his amazement increased, for it was almost impossible to force one's way through the dense crowds that appeared solely engaged in providing food for the Island City. Here lay thousands of flat-bottom boats, laden with vegetables and fruit of every description,-there again, clumsier





vessels filled with heavier and more solid requirements of the city,-while at certain points. might be noticed a long, low, snakelike gondola which had brought visitors from Venice, or was ready to carry them there.





The luggage was piled on the back of a stout porter, and the travellers soon chartered a four-oared gondola, which was to bear them to their destination. At first, it seemed impossible to force a way through the countless boats, and, indeed, had it not been for the astonishing amounts of oaths: the gondoliers dispensed liberally on both sides, they must have given up the job in despair. At length, however, they cleared a passage, and the gondola speeded along under the boatmen's vigorous thrusts as if endowed with life.

Very pleasant was it to glide along the grand canal of Mestre: the banks were clothed with delicious verdure, and the waters sparkled in the sun's rays. At every thrust the speed of the boat was increased, and our two friends,





standing up in the stern, gazed with delight on the broad expanse of waters that soon greeted them. Gradually, one bank of the canal disappeared and then the other, but only for a short time, for they were fast beginning to look out for the towers of Venice, when a dark frowning fortalice emerged as it were from the sea, and seemed to bar their progress.

Look, Herbert!" Bertie said with delight, "that is Fort Malghera, the first and strongest point of Venice; we must pay it a visit before long."

"Oh, of course," Herbert replied, "but, speaking as a civilian, I confess I should not care to be stationed there. Why, it would be a regular amphibious life, neither flesh nor fowl, nor good red herring."





“When a man is on duty," Bertie remarked sententiously, "he has no choice, and were I ordered there to-morrow, I would gladly obey, and try to make myself as comfortable as possible."





'Well, there is no accounting for tastes; for my part I should prefer the shady side of Pall-Mall."

"In peace, I quite agree with you; but if I had my choice where to stand a siege, I would say at a moment, Venice. What a glorious spot this would be to hold the enemy in check if well found in stores, I would say to an army of 50,000 men, 'Come, if you dare.'”

"You are right, I fancy," Herbert replied, looking up at the tall and gloomy walls beneath which they were gliding; "but suppose, old boy, the thing was the other way about, and you had to direct a siege of these forts from the Lagune; why, fever seems to grow in these swamps. Oh! that would be a bore, I



fancy."





Certainly," Bertie replied, "but do n't you see the Imperial Eagle fluttering up there? where that is I am too, and hence I might possibly be a defender, but never an assailant."





Well, time tries all; and we do not yet know what the French will be about."

"Tschau!" Bertie shouted merrily, and waved a salute to an officer who was standing on the Fort by the side of the sentry. The officer returned the salute, and the Fort was left far behind.

The broad expanse of the Lagune now presented itself to our travellers.

"By heavens! how glorious that is!" said Herbert, who had never visited Venice before, and though well acquainted with the general aspect of the city, from paintings and prints, the magnificent scene surpassed his expectations, highly wrought as they had been. It is true he was most fortunate in the day he had selected for his first visit; the morning fog still lay over the city, and rendered it invisible, and it seemed as if they were putting out straight to sea. But the melodious sounds of the countless bells reached Herbert's ear as they vibrated over the water, and seemed to be





rung in invisible churches. It was a realization of the story of the submerged city, the movement and hum of which can still be heard beneath the waves, though nothing is visible.

"How glad I am," Herbert said, "that we did not come by railway; what a glorious surprise I should have lost!"

And still the bells resounded, in their deep and high tones, slowly and rapidly, forming a strange medley as the carillon rung out from the various steeples.

"Hark!" Bertie held up his finger," one, two, three, four!-that is St Mark. After all it was a pity to connect the Island Queen with the main land by means of a railway. Half the charm is gone now that she is approachable by any element than that so peculiarly her own."

And now heavy masses of buildings slowly peered out from the fog, gradually assuming the forms of churches and houses; before long the gondola glided into a narrow canal, and





then past tall gloomy houses which produced a painful effect on Herbert. The lofty walls with their small windows were all of dark, dusty colour, doors and shutters mostly broken down, or swinging creakingly on their rusty hinges : the stairs before the houses and the bridges over the canal were dilapidated and weather-worn; clothes hung out to dry in every direction;-and our travellers were fortunate in escaping without some general discharge upon their heads. Even at the present day, everything that requires removal from the houses is mercilessly thrown into the canal, and there is no benevolent cry of "gardeloo," such as distinguished old Edinboro'. Half naked, greasy children play about on the bank, and in order that the nose may not be treated better than the eye, it is saluted by an ancient and fish-like smell, partly emanating from the stagnating waters of the Lagune, and partly from the piles of refuse, liberally raised by the inhabitants along the banks of the canal.

But when this ordeal has once been passed,





when the gondola sweeps into the Canal Grande, along which splendid marble palaces rise up direct from the water's edge, with their noble windows and balconies, their broad stairs leading to the canal, and graceful gondolas lying on a chain in front; when, finally, you reach the Rialto, and shoot beneath its noble marble arch, you are tempted to say, "Yes, Venice is unique; it is the fairest and most poetic city in the whole world."

So too thought Herbert, as he silently floated past these glorious relics of Venetian splendour. Bertie was an indefatigable cicerone, and drew his attention to numerous Palazzos, where friends of his resided to whom Herbert would be introduced.

"That is the Cadoro, one of the most graceful buildings in Venice. Taglioni has purchased it and, I believe, intends to restore it. We can turn off here, and reach the Hotel quicker through one of the side canals, but I think you





would prefer going straight on, as it will not make much difference."

"Oh no! I shall be delighted," Herbert replied, "but let us proceed a little more slowly, that I may impress upon my mind my first sight of this City of Marvels."

And thus they glided slowly along the Grand Canal, while Bertie told his companion the names of the great families that resided here at many he said, however, "that race is extinct, the palace is uninhabited." This was visible enough on closer inspection, and unfortunately this was principally the case with the larger buildings. In many the shutters were closed, the window-panes broken, the doors nailed up, and the water broke with a melancholy sob against the stairs: here was no gay carpet, no gondolas floating on the canal. "The house of the brave Moor," Bertie said with a laugh ; CC Othello's Palace least the ciceroni say so, and as I am perform



at





ing that duty for you to-day, I repeat the tale."

Bertie had just pointed to one of the smaller palaces on the Grand Canal; it was, however, in a very good condition, as an exceptional case, the jalousies gave it a cheerful aspect, and orange and laurel trees in graceful pots might be seen in the court-yard.

"We shall often visit that house, I trust, for I generally spend my evenings there. But I'll tell you about that another day."





With these words they reached the end of the Grand Canal, and steered in the direction of San Georgio Maggiore, nearly opposite which was the Hotel de l'Europe, where Herbert intended to stop. In passing, Bertie pointed out to Herbert the Palace of the Foscari, a large and stately building, but entirely deserted.

"And now, old boy, just have the goodness to wait for me an hour or so, till I have re





ported myself, and then I'll come and act as



your bearleader."



Herbert could not have visited Venice at a more favourable period, for several of the Imperial Princes had honoured Venice with their presence, and the city had assumed quite a holiday aspect. It added to Herbert's pleasure, too, that Bertie was such a general favourite, and his introduction of his friend was sufficient to open the first circles to him. At that time, however, the great split between the Austrian and the Italian parties had already commenced, and, to Herbert's regret, Bertie was prevented from paying his homage to all the lovely ladies who frequented the Fenice Theatre. The Austrian officers had received a hint not to be on too familiar terms with those who were exclusively of the Italian party, and, hence, those ladies who wore a white camelia in their hair, with a red ribbon attached, descending to the girdle, and there





mingling with a bouquet of green leaves-thus typifying the national colours-were gradually deserted by their Austrian admirers.





To Bertie, however, this appeared no great privation, for he was evidently attracted by the acknowledged leader of the Austrian party, the lovely Marchesa Poppoli. She formed a striking contrast to the other Venetian ladies, as her hair was of a golden hue, and fell in heavy clustering curls on her shoulders, for her mother had been a German. Although her father was regarded as the chief of the patriots, this did not at all prevent his daughter's popularity with the Austrian officers, who made her box a species of neutral ground, where they could converse with the Italian nobility, without fear of compromising themselves.

Amid the swarm of handsome young men who surrounded her, the Marchesa had especially selected Bertie as her cavaliere, and he was only too glad to obey her wishes. Indeed,





Herbert now and then found himself envying his friend's good fortune in having so fair a creature to love him, but, though the young lady was so well disposed, there was no likelihood of her ever becoming his, for her father designed her as the spouse of Count Dalti, her cousin, who was in the Austrian service, also, but was known to be at heart a patriot. Hence Bertie naturally regarded the Count with intense hatred, which was, however, fully returned, and there was no doubt they would soon come into a collision.

The day at length arrived for the final regatta; the Grand Canal was covered by countless gondolas, which on this occasion concealed their usual gloomy hue, under gaily embroidered carpets and elegant festoons of flowers. It was a magnificent sight, and the palaces took part in the brilliant preparations. From all the windows fluttered banners, while the balconies and terraces were covered by thousands of pleased and excited spectators.





Venice appeared as if by enchantment restored to her pristine splendour.

Bertie and Herbert, we may be sure, did not fail on this occasion: they hired the handsomest gondola that could be procured for money, and their turn-out was irreproachable. Bertie, however, had no eyes but for his Marchesa, and before long he was enabled to distinguish her barque cleaving its way through the throng. She was seated in a small, richly-ornamented and gilded gondola; splendid Persian tapestry hung over the side and floated after the boat. She was carelessly reclining on the black silken cushions by the side of a duenna, and attracted general attention.

This was, however, not exclusively bestowed on her person, but her gondola claimed a considerable share. Nearly all the boats displayed the Italian colours in the arrangement of the carpets and flowers; but her gondola was solely distinguished by the black and yellow pennant that fluttered proudly at the prow. Many





gazed on it with surprise as the gondola glided past here and there a muttered Maledetto might be heard, or a loud laugh of contempt, or then again a half-suppressed evviva.

Bertie gave his boatmen directions to pull up close to the Marchesa's gondola, but just as they reached it, another boat intercepted it, and Count Dalti emerged from the coffin-like cabin.





Scusi, Signor," he said, with a bow to Bertie," but on this day my place is by the side of the Marchesa."

Bertie laughed provokingly. "I am very glad, Signor Count, to find you paying allegiance to the colours of your Emperor. I will take care to tell our comrades how mistaken they are in supposing that Count Dalti shuns the black and yellow flag, for he is now floating amicably side by side with it. Well, Count, could never have a nobler standard fluttering over your head."



you



"No explanation will be required, Signor,"





said the young man with a scowl;



"for I have



no longer the honour of serving His Imperial Majesty. My resignation has been accepted, and I am at liberty to choose my companions. You will, therefore, I trust, permit me to say that I prefer my own countrymen to the society of the Tedeschi. Good morning, Signor."

And the Count, with a commanding glance at the Marchesa, ordered the boats to move on, and Bertie felt horribly disgusted.



rr



By Jove, Bertie," Herbert said with a laugh, "you'd better mind yourself with that



:



fellow he looked daggers, and mind he don't use them yet."

"Ah bah! you don't think an Austrian officer and an Englishman to boot would be afraid of one of these dirty Italians. Why, man, with twenty of my Bombardiers, I'd back myself to sweep St Mark's Place at any moment."

"For that very reason you ought to be careful: they know they can effect nothing





against you openly, and that is the cause of their having recourse to the knife. You know how many of your officers have been lately stabbed, and not a single assassin has been arrested. I tell you, Bertie, there is something up with these Venetians, and before long there will be a row."



cr



Why, what are you dreaming of, my dear boy? Do you know we have 3000 Austrians in the forts, and could destroy the whole city in a couple of hours if they tried any nonsense ? No, no; Pio Nono may be making a fool of himself and preparing a rod for his own back, but the contagion will never spread to Venice."

Before long the two young men returned to land, as it was impossible to join the Marchesa again, and though many kind glances were bestowed on them by the ladies who floated past in their gondolas, neither cared to respond to the invitation.

Bertie had a fashion peculiar to Englishmen





of wearing mufti whenever he had a chance, and, although he would have been severely punished, had the breach of regulations been known, he could not help it. With Herbert he often wandered about the streets in a comfortable shooting jacket and wide-awake, and thus escaped observation from the patriots.

The pair were seated in front of one of the numerous cafés on St Mark's Square, when Bertie's attention was suddenly attracted by hearing the Marchesa's name mentioned at an adjoining table. Imperiously commanding Herbert to silence, he listened attentively.

"Did 'st thou see," said one, "the fair Marchesa ? "

"With the German flag," another remarked. "Maledetto!" hissed a third.

"What do youmean-the lady or the flag?'

Both, for aught I care. She is a Venetian, and her father's name sounds well with the people."

"He is a cunning scoundrel, that old Mar





chese," another Venetian remarked, "let him alone, he knows why he allows his daughter to display the black and yellow flag. He is thus enabled to stand well with the Government, and that is no loss. But, chut, here comes a Tedesco."

Bertie was strongly tempted to leap forth and fall violently on the group, but Herbert restrained him, for the strictest orders had been issued that the Austrian officers should avoid any collision with the Italians. In fact, the moderation was pushed to an excess, and though the Governor was repeatedly warned that there was something in the wind, he would not listen to the advice, and allowed matters to reach a crisis.

Before long, Bertie was almost driven mad by the obstacles thrown in his way for meeting his divinity. He called two or three times at the Palazzo, but only saw the father, who received him with courtesy, but never expressed any wish for his return. Besides, as the





society there was composed exclusively of Italians, he was obliged to be very cautious, for fear of compromising himself with the authorities, and he gnashed his teeth at the thought that he could not be revenged on Count Dalti, who bowed to him always with such distressing politeness, and gave him no opportunity for a rupture.

Most ingenious were the schemes Bertie invented for gaining an interview with the lovely girl, but they all failed from the simple fact that the Count had placed an army of spies around him, who watched his every movement. He was obliged too to exercise extreme caution, for, though personally rash to madness, the dark forms he saw constantly prowling around his quarters made him feel uncomfortable, and while he had not the slightest objection to die for his Emperor in the field, he felt that "one hurried stab with a jagged knife" would be an inglorious termination of his career.





The Marchesa, too, was almost at her wits' ends but when was a woman at a loss for a plan? Hence, somewhat to Herbert's surprise, he saw an old lady enter his apartment one morning and hand him a magnificent bouquet.

"The central flower is for Il Signore Dymoke," the aged female whispered mysteriously; "his wit will read the riddle.”

And before Herbert could stop her and ask an explanation, she had glided from the



room.



Fortunately, Bertie soon arrived to pay his daily visit, and Herbert at once told him of his strange visitor and her message. Bertie

hastily plucked out the central flower, a splendid carnation, and looked at it again and again, but it was a flower and nothing more. Unable to understand the mystery he threw it angrily on the table, when all at once the leaves fell out, and the space they should have occupied revealed a piece of paper closely



folded up.



Hurriedly, extracting it, Bertie

read the following lines written in German: "Heaven alone knows, Carissimo, how long the hours have seemed since I last gazed on your dear face; but I am closely watched. My father declares that I shall marry my cousin before the month is at an end, but that must not be; and I trust to you to release me from this fatal yoke. I am certain he is a traditore to the Tedeschi, and, if you can prove him such, you may, by threatening to denounce him, force him to give up his claim, and I shall be liberated from him. I am sure he has some scheme on foot, and, alas! I fear my father is engaged in it; but you know I shall ever prove true to the Schwarz Gold. Watch him, then, carefully; follow him wherever he goes, and before long you will be on the trail of the conspiracy. Addio."

"Phew!" whistled Bertie, "here's a pretty little game! I say, Herbert, this is a lively prospect for that knife you have so often





warned me against. But, of course, I shall follow the trail, and I trust to you, old fellow, to help me."

Herbert might really have been justified in declining this dangerous proposal; what was Italian treachery to him? The Venetians might blow the Austrians into the Lagune as far as he was concerned, so long as they respected that mysterious document to which the name of Lord Palmerston was appended. However, he could not refuse Bertie his assistance, and, regardless of knives and other instruments of warfare, he consented to turn detective on behalf of his Imperial Majesty.

"But mind you, Bertie," he sagaciously remarked, “if I do happen to get prodded, you will write a flaming paragraph in the papers to prove my zeal in the holy cause of love!"





CHAPTER VII.



TRADITORE!



Ar first Bertie could not overcome the uncomfortable feeling that he was acting an unworthy part in watching Count Dalti so closely, but he fortified himself with the reflection that he was doing his duty to the Emperor, and if he detected any plot it might be foiled with advantage. It was evident that the Marchesa was acquainted with more than she liked to reveal, and the hints she had given was enough to tell Bertie that there was something mysterious going on. Herbert quite





agreed with his views, and they carefully followed the Count's movements.

If, however, Bertie expected to make any great discovery, it seemed as if he would be disappointed, for the Count was not at all changed from his usual habits. He had never been on friendly terms with his fellow-officers, and now that he had quitted the service he associated entirely with Italians. Still, there was nothing strange in this; and he but followed the example of his countrymen. If this were all Bertie was to learn, it was nothing



new.



Thus matters went on for some weeks, until one evening Bertie was mooning about alone in mufti, as Herbert had been laid up for a day or two. After a while he lounged into a café and began reading the paper as he slowly swallowed an ice. Near him was seated a party of young men, some of whom he fancied he recognised. Still, he did not pay much atten





tion to them at first, as their conversation did not at all interest him, but when they mentioned Count Dalti's name he could not refrain from listening, though at first in spite of himself.

"It is quite true," one of the young men said, “he is regarded in the house as if he were already son-in-law. By Jove, he has



undeserved luck."



"But the Marchesa, does she consent to the bargain?" another objected; "I fancy, were she to say nay, neither her father nor the whole family could compel her to consent."

"Ah! the fair beauty has grown tame, and the marriage, I understand, is to take place next week."

This was too much for Bertie to hear, and he hurried from the café. The old proverb that listeners never hear any good was fully verified, and however much he might try to pooh pooh the notion, it continually recurred to him. Again the lady's length





ened silence seemed to confirm the story. Oh! it was atrocious. As a natural consequence Bertie soon worked himself up into a belief in the fair girl's treachery, and began to feel utterly wretched. After all, he thought, how could he, a poor Austrian officer, attemp to rival a man of large fortune like the Count, or lift his eyes to a lady holding such a position as the Marchesa? He was rightly punished for his presumption.

While engaged with these thoughts, Bertie slowly walked towards St Mark's Place. It was growing quite dark, and the shops were brilliantly illuminated. But, as the gaiety here did not suit Bertie's desponding humour, he turned his back on St Mark's, and proceeded dreamily through several narrow streets and over gloomy bridges, till he came near the celebrated Chapel dei Miracoli, that splendid edifice of white marble, covered within and without with the most splended sculpture.

The chapel lies away from the busy hum





of the city, and especially at evening the place is silent and deserted. All at once it struck Bertie as curious that the three or four gondolas plying here were drawn up on the other bank, as if awaiting somebody. No sooner was a stranger visible, than a gondola pushed off into the middle of the canal, as if expecting a signal. If that was not given, it returned again to the old spot.

This manoeuvre Bertie noticed several times, and began to be interested by it. He had seated himself on the small marble steps leading from the chapel to the water, and was accidentally so hidden in the shadow of the building that neither the gondoliers nor the passers by could distinguish him. Here he sat for about half an hour, and was just on the point of lighting a cigar, when he noticed. a man coming across the piazza, whom he recognised with the instinct of hate. It was the Count: he walked up to the edge of the canal, and one of the gondolas repeated the





old manœuvre; the Count coughed twice and the bark immediately came up to the steps, which the Count descended, passing so close to Bertie that he could have touched him. The gondolier, however, kept the bow of his boat a yard from land, and appeared to be waiting for something.

"Italia!" the new comer said softly, but distinctly.

At this word the gondola came close up, the Count sprang in, and away it sped through the shades of night.

Now was the time to acquire certainty about his detested rival's schemes, Bertie thought, and he determined on following him. It was hardly honourable, I am afraid, but my readers must remember that the young gentleman was instigated by duty to his master and a consuming jealousy; hence, it was not likely he would speculate for any length of time on the propriety of his conduct.

So, walking quickly round the little chapel,





Bertie emerged in the moonlight. As, however, there were no other gondolas about than those on the opposite bank, he closely followed the Count's movements, and soon was speeding along the gloomy, terribly silent canal.

While seated in the coffin-like cabin, it suddenly occurred to Bertie that he was doing a very foolish thing: he was unarmed and in pursuit of a man whom he knew very unfavourably disposed toward him. But it was now too late for any such considerations, and he must carry out his daring scheme to the



end.



The gondola proceeded a very long distance, and when Bertie peered out of the window to try and find out where he was going, although so well acquainted with the ins and outs of Venice, even his practised eye could not trace any known route along the narrow, winding canals through which the boat sped.



*



"What's to be done," he said to himself, "when the gondola stops? Well, the best





thing will be, if I find myself at the Marchese's, to assume a bold front and say I have come to pay an evening visit. It is time enough yet for that, and if I am taken elsewhere, well, I can easily pretend I have made a mistake."

At length the gondola stopped and Bertie rose from his seat. The gondolier offered him his hand, and he went up a flight of steps. The boat immediately started back, and Bertie found himself before a small lighted portal. But though he carefully examined the terrace and the canal by which he had arrived, he could not form the remotest conception where he really was.

One thing, at any rate, was certain: his retreat was cut off, and his adventure began to seem to him rather hazardous, for he knew not what best to do. Where did the steps in front lead to Whom should he find above? However, he was obliged to go on, but had not proceeded far, when he heard another gondola





stop below, and the footsteps of some person coming up after him.

It was a tall, stately gentleman with a heavy black beard, a perfect stranger to him. He was evidently an Italian, for he gave Bertie the greeting in the Venetian patois, as he regarded him searchingly. Bertie was much embarrassed what reply to make, and yet the stranger did not appear as if he would be satisfied with an ordinary salutation.

Fortunately the young Englishman thought of the word the Count had employed to the gondolier, and he tried its effect again. "Italia!" he said in a firm voice, and the stranger appeared satisfied, for he nodded his head, but to Bertie's utter amazement replied: "Si, Signor, Italia liberata."

These words produced a startling effect on Bertie, for they showed him he was about to come on the trail of a mystery, which might prove of incalculable value. Although advance was combined with great personal





danger, he would not for the world have turned back now, and he felt quite delighted at having ventured so incautiously on this bold adventure.

The stranger, however, allowed Bertie no long time for reflection, for he took him by the arm, and they ascended the steps together. On reaching the top, they entered a hall with several doors leading from it. The bearded Italian seemed to be at home here, for he walked toward one of them and opened it. They then entered a room, in which several persons of dubious appearance seemed to represent servants, for they received the strangers' hats. Along the wall sat other facchini and gondoliers, some with red boatsmen's caps on their heads, others with broad-brimmed Ernani felt hats.

From an adjoining room toward which the stranger walked, the murmurs of many voices could be heard.

"May I inquire your name ?





the





Italian asked Bertie as they approached the



door.



Bertie hesitated and fell back a step.





"If you do not like to give your name, the Italian continued, "I must ask for that of the member who introduced you here-and gives a guarantee for you," he added with a smile.

After slight reflection Bertie decided on giving that of Count Dalti, for he hoped to make it a personal matter with him.



'



"I really believe I am acquainted with no one here save Count Dalti, and I should like to say a few words to him in private before I join the company."





His name is well reputed among us,' said the bearded man.





The folding doors were thrown open, and Bertie found himself on the threshold of a large room, the windows of which were veiled by heavy velvet curtains. He saw an assembly





of some sixty well-dressed gentlemen, standing in groups, or eagerly debating at a table.

Bertie's heart beat more violently than before, when several of the gentlemen turned and gazed fixedly on him.

"Count Dalti!" the Italian who accompanied him shouted, and by accident the Count happened to be close to the door.

He turned hastily round, and revealed the utmost terror and confusion at the sight of Dymoke, although a dark flush of satisfaction. soon suffused his face, as a pleasant thought seemed to occur to him.

The Venetian who had entered with Bertie looked with amazement on the change that had taken place in the Count's face, and guessing that some unpleasant scene was about to be acted, he remained close to them. Other gentlemen also turned round and walked to the door.





The Count had by this time regained sufficient firmness to inquire of Bertie :





May I ask to what we owe your presence in this assembly?"

Though Bertie was very decidedly puzzled, he replied with equal calmness:

"This is not the place for us to enter into explanations. I will retire, and we can settle matters to-morrow."



'



"I presume, then, that His Imperial Majesty's officers are now honourably employed as spies?





The insult went home, but Bertie commanded himself sufficiently to reply: "We can defer our explanation, as I said before, till to-morrow. But now I would prefer leaving the room, as I do not think there is any great honour to be gained by remaining here."

With these words he turned to the door, but the Venetian who had accompanied him up the steps interposed his bulky person.



cr



Stay! you will not escape so easily. We





cannot allow such treachery to pass un



noticed."



There was by this time a general confusion

The men round the table had



in the room.

risen, and formed a large circle round the dis-

putants. A dead silence prevailed, and all

the faces were turned toward the door.

Bertie had now an opportunity of recognis-

ing the Marchese Poppoli and several other

Italian gentlemen he had met in society. The

Marchese, who appeared to act as president,

was the first to regain his self-possession, and

he did so with considerable presence of mind,

by pressing forward with a loud laugh and

squeezing Bertie's hand, while saying to those

around:



"Pray, gentlemen, do not let Signor Dymoke imagine that his appearance among us is unwelcome. I beg you to keep your seats; then turning to Bertie he said with forced hilarity: "You have come just in time, my dear Signor, to join us in our harmless conversa





tion-there will be some play presently,"



he added in a whisper.



"Allow me to intro



duce you to these gentlemen, for I presume will favour us with your company for an hour or two."



you



Bertie hardly knew for a moment what reply to make. While the Marchese was thus speaking, the company returned to their old occupation and retired from the door, but an attentive observer would have noticed that, although they apparently renewed their conversation, they carefully watched the conclusion of the



scene.



Count Dalti, too, came up to the young man and laughingly offered him his hand, as if in apology for the language he had used. Bertie, however, bowed formally and said to the Marchese:

"You must pardon me for intruding on your society without an invitation. I feel how improper my conduct has been, and will punish





myself for it by immediately withdrawing, and thus losing the pleasant evening you offer me."

The smile on the Marchese's face was converted into an ominous grin, while the Count's hands opened and closed again convulsively. The bearded Venetian remained close to the door.

"You will, therefore, permit me to retire after renewing my apologies," Bertie added.

The Marchese bowed and opened the door. The Count was about to follow him, but Bertie directed such a conscious glance full upon him that he fell back in confusion. Bertie then proceeded to the ante-chamber, followed by the Venetian.

"At this moment you will not find a gon. dola below, so pray allow me to offer you mine, which lies at the principal steps of the Palazzo."

At a sign from him two gondoliers sprung up, and he whispered a few hurried words to





them. The smile had disappeared from his features, and hatred and fury flashed from his eyes. Un traditore! he repeated several times in a gentle but piercing voice, and one of the two men he had summoned nodded his head intelligently.





Bertie had quitted the ante-room and walked along a corridor which he fancied would lead. to the steps he had ascended. At the end of the passage he opened a door, but soon discovered that he had made a mistake and entered the other portion of the Palazzo. He found himself in a spacious hall, lighted by several lamps, and decorated with orange trees and flowers, at the other end being a handsome flight of stairs, probably leading to the canal.

He was about to turn back, when the door through which he had just entered was hurriedly opened, and an aged female seized him by the arm, and dragged him away as quickly as possible. Then she opened another door, thrust the surprised young man through





it, and closed it behind him. At the same moment she whispered, "Follow me, or you are lost!"

He had scarce been withdrawn from the hall in this fashion when he heard several footsteps crossing the marble pavement. Then he heard a deep voice ask, "Has any one gone down the stairs?" to which his guide replied, "I fancy a young man has just passed. You were close behind him and must have seen him." A low, peculiar whistle followed, several oars plashed in the water below, and the men who had just spoken hurried down.

Bertie found himself in a lofty, spacious room, and looked around in amazement. All that had occurred to him on this eventful night seemed like a dream, but he had no long time to speculate on the events, for the same old woman made her appearance at the other end of the room, and signed to him to follow. He walked through several rooms, but at length she opened the door of a boudoir and





motioned to him to enter. Suddenly he uttered a cry of delight, for his Marchesa stood before him.

"Oh, Signor, how glad I am you have escaped! but, Madonna! how rash of you to risk your life among those dangerous men!





"I was only acting in obedience to your wishes, Donna Emilia," said Bertie with a smile, as he raised her hands to his lips. "I think I have proofs enough to keep your cousin in check, if he dare to press his claim to your hand."

"Alas! it is too late now, for my father has joined the conspirators heart and soul, and my cousin knows his power. But, Maria purissima, that you should run such a risk-had it not been for Theresa overhearing a remark, you would now be at the bottom of the Lido."

And the poor girl shuddered at the thought of her lover's narrow escape.

"You must leave Venice at once," she con

tinued, "or else you will be assassinated: you





are an object of suspicion to these dangerous men, and besides," she added, with a charming blush, "the Count would not be sorry were an accident to happen to you. But, hush, I hear footsteps, you must fly at once." "Not till you tell me, carissima, when we shall meet again."

"Heaven knows! a dark cloud hangs over this hapless city, and the lightning may strike us before we expect it.'





"One word in parting, Emilia: you will be mine! give me a talisman that will bear me harmless."



:



"You shall have it, then be faithful to your Emperor and to the lady you love!"

One hurried embrace and Bertie glided from the room after the old waiting-woman. She led him across the corridor and down a low gloomy passage, at the end of which was a door opening on the canal. Here a gondola was in readiness and Bertie leapt in, after hastily thanking his guide. A quarter of an hour later


he was with Herbert, telling him all the events



of the night.



Morning had scarcely dawned ere a gentleman waited on Bertie, on the part of the Count, . requesting the honour of a meeting, and as the young gentleman infinitely preferred this way of settling the dispute to having a knife driven. between his ribs, he gladly arranged the preliminaries. Herbert would not be behind hand, and though still ailing insisted on acting as his second.

The meeting took place on the Island of Murano, and the glance of concentrated fury the Count fixed on Bertie showed he had not much mercy to expect. to expect. Fortunately for that gentleman, the Count's passion obscured his aim, and his first bullet whizzed innocuously past Bertie's ear. The pistols were again loaded, and this time Bertie took a deliberate aim at the man, who designed murder, and was lucky enough to wound him in the right arm. The affair was over.





After a consultation with Herbert, Bertie thought it his duty to inform his superior officers that there was something in the wind, but, as he could not venture to mention names, his information was very coolly received. In fact, the authorities had not the remotest idea that their rule had de facto slipped from their grasp till the moment for hostilities arrived.

This was not long delayed: the conspirators,

fearing lest Bertie might arouse suspicions, hurried on their movements and took occasion of Manin's arrest by the police to arouse the passions of the mob. But the news of the insurrection at Vienna urged them to action, and they commenced the new regime by murdering Colonel Marinovich, commandant of the arsenal; and the civil governor Count Palfy had the inconceivable weakness to issue 4000 stand of arms to be employed in raising a civic guard, which, of course, turned its weapons against the Austrians.

But Count Zichy, the military governor,





was not behind his civil confrère in weakness, and, to spare the effusion of blood with which Manin and Tommaseo threatened to accompany any resistance on the part of the troops, he consented to give up all the forts, and send the garrison of 6000 men aboard the vessels unarmed! The revolution was triumphant: the Dictator found in the arsenal and forts 36,000 muskets, more than 1000 .cannon, and enormous stores of powder.

Kinsky's regiment nobly retrieved the honour of the Austrian arms: General Culoz refused to lay down his arms, and the men were prepared to die at their post, when Manin thought it advisable to let them keep their muskets. This slight instance proves that Zichy made a terrible mistake in surrendering as he did had he held firm and occupied the Malghera Fort, an awful expenditure of life would have been eventually saved.



:



During all this period of agitation Herbert kept close to his room, having no inclination to





be stabbed, which his known intimacy with the Austrians might easily have brought about. Indeed, he was casting about to quit Venice as rapidly as possible, when he was agreeably surprised by Bertie entering his room. He required to hear his voice, however, to recognise him, for Bertie looked for all the world like a respectable banker's clerk. He had shaved off the huge moustache to which he had devoted such pains, and was dressed in a lustrous suit of black with a white choker and an enormous shirt-collar.

"Come, young fellow," he said to the astounded Herbert, "I have received orders to get across overland and report to Radetzky all that has happened here. He is supposed to have fallen back on Verona, and we can

make the carriage useful. I have a pass all ready for Mr Gaston, and his tutor Mr. Simms, travelling for their pleasure, and I think we can get through these accursed republicans safely. But we have not a moment to





lose, for, look ye, this is a hanging matter for us if I am caught. I shall be off alone to Mestre, and shall expect you to join me before two o'clock, as we had better not leave the town together, but so soon as we have made our way out, we must hurry on at full speed, for I am anxious to gain my captain's star.”

Before long, Herbert's portmanteau was packed and he left Venice for Mestre by the last train that ran across the Lagune bridge.

Within two hours the young men were bowling along as fast as they could speed toward Vicenza, and, thanks to the precautions taken by Bertie, they did not excite the slightest suspicion. The authorities gave them every opportunity for continuing their journey, as Englishmen were at a decided premium in those days among the republican party, and the first Austrian picket they came up with, Bertie leaped from the carriage with a shout of joy, to the terror of the driver, and hailed the dear old flag with delight.





Three hours later they were safely immured in Verona, where Radetzky heard Bertie's report. So struck was he by the intelligence the young men had displayed, that he immediately gave Bertie his captaincy, attaching him to the first field battery prepared to leave the city, while Herbert readily accepted an appointment as orderly officer on the staff so long as he liked to volunteer with the army.





CHAPTER VIII.



A NIGHT RIDE.



It is not my purpose to describe the entire campaign of 1848, for that is sufficiently known: how Charles Albert marched from one success to another, till the rugged fortress of Verona hemmed his progress and forced him to retreat. Custozza had been fought, and the Piedmontese had commenced their wild and disorganized retreat, when I again take up the thread of our hero's history. The old Marshal had ordered a pontoon bridge to be thrown over the Adda at Formigara, in order that the first and second corps d'armée might pursue the enemy, whose





columns, seized with panic, no longer offered any resistance to the victorious Austrians. The Piedmontese generals scarce occupied a position, or turned their heavy batteries on the pursuing enemy, ere the sight of the latter produced a confusion among the Italians. Troops that had before fought so well and bravely broke at the sight of the white lines, and started back from the claws of the Eagle which incessantly pursued them. Cavalry left their positions, artillery rattled away, infantry columns dispersed, and so great was the alarm that, in some instances, the men threw themselves down on the ground before their officers, and declared they would sooner be trampled on by their own horses than again march against the enemy. The retreat had degenerated into a rout.

The gently sloping banks of the Adda offered at this point one of the richest and most animated military pictures it could be possible to see. The ground was hidden by





soldiers of every arm, and the sun which shone at times fiercely through the heavy cloudmasses glinted off the brazen guns, and the gold and silver of the uniforms. Everybody seemed busily and pleasantly engaged; the artillery stood by their limbers, gunners, hussars, dragoons, and lancers held their horses by the bridle, and heavy masses of infantry lay resting on the white sand, with their knapsacks unstrapped, and their arms piled.

Through the centre of the picture moved long trains of pontoons, and orderlies of every arm forced their way with difficulty through the throng, bearing orders to the river, where the pontonniers were hard at work. With wondrous rapidity were the pontoons unladen, thrust into the water, anchored, and bound together. Every fresh pontoon attached was greeted by a hearty cheer, which was taken up by the troops on the banks and ran along the ranks.





The reason why the pontonniers worked so indefatigably was seen on noticing the glances. of the resting soldiers, who were watching the movements on a hillock near the bank. There might be seen officers from every regiment, there came the orderlies who brought messages to the bridge, and there too went the reports from the engineer officers below and from the commandants of the advancing troops.

The officers on the mound formed a large semi-circle round a little man in the FieldMarshal's gray uniform, who kept his right arm pressed on his side, while the other held his sabre and hat. The little man, who had dismounted, looked with a bright, pleasant eye on the commotion on the banks, at one moment saying a few words to an officer, then waving his hand to the troops, who saluted every glance of the bright honest eye with loud hurrahs, evvivas, and eljens!

The little man with the snow-white hair and





pleasant glance was Father Radetzky, who had driven the Piedmontese from position after position, and now returned to the plains of Lombardy, omnipotent and menacing. At his approach Milan trembled, for it had witnessed his degradation on a terrible night of the same year, and that conquerors can never forgive.

By four in the afternoon the bridge was completed, and an hurrah, louder and more continuous than all the rest, announced the fact to the troops. The Field-Marshal mounted his horse and the men fell into the ranks.. Then they commenced crossing the bridgeit was a magnificent sight; all the bands. played the national hymn, and the bank, hitherto a chaos of colours and uniforms, began to display long, regular lines.

At length the troops had all passed, and the bridge was occupied by a countless file of baggage-waggons. These were followed by the Field-Marshal, and the Head-Quarters Staff, and





only a few battalions remained on the bank to form the rear guard, with some squadrons of cavalry and a battery.

On the banks stood a cottage, the abode of the ferryman, who kept in addition a humble hostelry. In front, after the fashion of all Italian houses, ran a verandah, formed of trees and laths roughly put together, but looking more picturesque in consequence. A closely entwined grape vine covered the verandah, and the clustering fruit sparkled in the sun's rays.

Two officers were seated on the terrace before the house, old acquaintances of ours. Bertie was in command of the battery, while Herbert, who by accident found himself off duty, had run up to have a chat with his comrade. They had scarcely met half-a-dozen times during the campaign, and Herbert was quite a changed. man. There was none of that listlessness which brooded over him formerly: he had seen a good deal of service, as any officer on Radet



.





zky's staff might expect, and had been slightly wounded at Curtatone. Hence, he was delighted at the successes that now awaited the Austrians, and 'confidently expressed a hope that they would enter Milan before the week was out.

It was Bertie's turn to be dispirited, for he had heard nothing from or of his Marchesa since he quitted Venice. However, the city was closely invested, and he had strong hopes of his battery being sent off to the siege as soon as the Piedmontese were disposed of, whither Herbert, who felt no desire for inactivity, prohim.



mised to accompany



"Never mind, old boy," he said, striving to console Dymoke, "when we heroes get down to Venice, the walls will fall before us like those of Jericho, and then we shall have the honour of capturing master Count and handing him over to a corporal's file."

But Bertie shook his head. "Do you know, Herbert, I feel confident I shall not live through





the campaign and see Emilia again. I struggle against the feeling as much as I can, but I cannot overcome it. Besides," he added with a grim smile," the chances are all against me, for I have not been wounded once."



ઃઃ



Oh, nonsense, old fellow, we shall live to return to England all right, and I shall be best-man at your wedding. They have something else to think about in Venice than marrying and giving in marriage, and I dare say the city will surrender as soon as Milan falls. But I must hurry away: I suppose I shall have another pleasant ride to-night, for I have only been sixteen hours in the saddle. But I have no right to complain, when I remember Father Radetzky kept his saddle for six-and-thirty hours at Custozza."

With these words Herbert hurried down to his horse, walked it across the bridge, and then started off at a sharp canter in the direction of head quarters. The night had already set in when he reached Formigara: and found





the modest peasant's house in which Radetzky had established his head quarters. He was heartily welcomed by the officers lounging about the door, but when he asked if they had any chance of getting beds, they laughed at his simplicity.

"Well! if you get any sleep you'll be a lucky fellow," said one of the officers; "why, up there they are writing for life; all of us have our despatches awaiting us, and the next turn will be yours. You'll find your fellow with your horses in the house next door to the church."

Herbert shrugged his shoulders with a laugh, took a powerful pull at a flask offered him, and went to have a fresh horse saddled. That done, he returned to head quarters to be ready for his turn. He went up-stairs, unearthed an officer he knew, took part of a most frugal supper, smoked a cigar, and then lay down in his uniform to get a few hours' refreshing and much-wanted sleep. Before long he was





disturbed by a field officer, who expressed his sincere regret at having to arouse him :

"But, my dear boy," he added, "there is no one else here, and though I know you must be nearly done up, I cannot help sending you off for a night ride."

Herbert was awake and on his legs in an instant he arranged his sabre and cartouchebox, and received orders to ride cautiously toward Pizzighettone, and if he found the Austrians had already entered there, hand his despatches to General Gyulai. In a moment Herbert had donned his long white cloak, mounted his horse, and was riding out of the village.

The weather had undergone a most unpleasant change. Around was a darkness that might be felt, not a star shone in the heavens, and every now and then that sharp dry wind swept across the plain which is the sure foreboder of a terrific storm. The camp fires could scarce by kept in: the horses shook themselves





and held their widely-opened nostrils to the wind. The soldiers did not attempt to sleep,





but sat in groups in the ditches by the road side, pointing to the sky and talking of the war of elements that threatened to out-thunder their artillery.

Before long, Herbert left the camp and bivouacs in his rear, and rode along the solitary road. Gradually the wind increased in severity, the thunder rolled nearer and nearer above his head. Trees and bushes on the road side bowed low before the fury of the tempest, and his horse started frequently at the sharp flashes that incessantly burst forth between the black clouds. Soon he met a cavalry patrol, and the non-commissioned officer told him that, so far as he could see from the river, the Piedmontese were on the point of quitting Pizzighettone, and that he could easily catch, up the Austrian van-guard and enter the town with it.

It was now about one o'clock, and the tempest increased in savageness. The wind





was so tremendous, that Herbert's horse could hardly make head-way against it. It howled round the rider, hurling sand and stones into his face, and tearing heavy boughs from the trees, which fell with a crash on the road. The rain poured down in torrents, and at times such tremendous hail-stones pattered down on horse and rider, that Herbert could hardly manage to keep the animal's head straight. It was a fearful ride. For an hour this confusion of the elements lasted, but then it gradually grew milder, and the rain, though it did not cease, came down more gently.

In the lull Herbert fancied he could hear the rattling of waggons, and the sound of infantry and cavalry divisions moving across the plain at some distance from him. The wind bore the sounds, now stronger, now weaker, to his ear: he checked his horse and bent forward to try and detect whether it were friend or foe before him, and if he should ride straight on or turn off to the side. As Piz





zighettone lay to his left, the sounds must proceed from that quarter, hence it must be the Piedmontese quitting the fortress. He guided his horse slightly to the left, and began riding in the direction where he supposed the town and river to be; he must be close to the latter, but it was so dark that the stream did not glisten.

Suddenly his horse started back, and the equally startled rider caught up his reins and clutched involuntarily at his sabre. Before him the dark night was cleft asunder, it seemed as if the very earth were bursting; red and yellow flames emitting myriads of sparks were belched forth-it was a magnificent powder explosion. This terrible fire only lasted a minute, but its glare enabled Herbert to see that he was scarce a mile from the fortress, and that the bridge across the Adda had been blown up. The night only seemed the darker when the explosion terminated, and the flames it left looked like little twinkling dots. The





earth had trembled again with the terrific detonation, and Herbert's horse tried in vain to escape across the fields, and thus fly from the startling surprise which had flashed across its eyes.



That



After Herbert had, with some difficulty, soothed the animal, and considered what he had best do under the circumstances, he determined on riding nearer the fortress. the Piedmontese had quitted it he was quite certain, for he had heard their columns before, and they had blown up the bridge to delay the passage of the Austrians. But, listen, what is that sound that strikes his ear? it is a familiar signal, the merry ring of a rifle bugle. Within a quarter of an hour he had entered Pizzighettone and delivered his despatches. Then he quitted the town again, and crossed the Adda, in order to reach Casal Pustelengo, where he expected to find head quarters of the 4th corps d'armée.

Wet through, as he was, and agitated by all





the terrors of the past night, Herbert began to think, as he proceeded along the solitary road, that it was about the most foolish thing a man with seven thousand a year could do, to go a soldiering. All his martial ardour was washed out of him, and he sincerely wished the end of the campaign arrived.

Near him rustled the river, and as the wind had entirely gone down he heard nothing but the babbling of the water, or the snorting of his horse, which sunk with every step into the soaked ground. His coat, wet through and through, hung weightily around him, and heavy water-drops rolled down from his hair and beard. It still rained, if not so violently, yet with a remarkable persistency.

Thus Herbert rode on for an hour, until he heard the trampling of horses, and caught up a lancer patrol, from which he learned that the fourth corps was really at Casal.

"If you ride sharply," the leader of the patrol said, "you will probably come up with a





Squadron of Chevaux Legers, who form the rear-guard."

Pressing his horse with his knee, Herbert soon caught up a mass of cavalry, whose helmets and white cloaks gleamed fitfully in the darkness. Here he found a friend in command, and on glancing at him, wet through, dirty, his mantle hanging down with wet and mud, and his horse hardly able to move a leg, Herbert could form an idea as to his own personal appearance. The troopers rode along silently and despondently, for they had not a dry thread upon them.

The Chevaux Legers officer was busily engaged in trying to keep a damp cigar alight.

"Pleasant weather, ain't it?" he shouted to Herbert; "we have had a really charming night. How was it over your way? Did you hear the bridge blown up? why it made as much noise as if ten thousand guns had been fired together. I pity the poor fellows near it."





"Things look bad enough there," said Herbert, "but I don't think any of our fellows suffered, though they blew up plenty of their own men. You must excuse me, however, for I want to get to head quarters. I haven't a dry inch about me."

"Do you happen to have such a thing as a pocket-handkerchief to spare?" the Chevaux Leger said in a most dolorous tone; "I've caught a most diabolical cold, and have lost mine."

"Well! I think I can help you," said Herbert; "that is, always supposing my water-proof saddle-cloth has done its duty. And I can offer you another luxury-a dry cigar."

The Chevaux Leger rolled the splendid Manilla between his lips with delight.

"I wish I were an Englishman," he said, "were it only to smoke such glorious cigars whenever I liked. If you've got any more left, just let me know, like a good fellow, where





your quarters are, for such a bit of tobacco is meat and drink to a man.'

Away Herbert rode, in anxious longing for breakfast and bed, and soon came up with the main body of the column. He experienced considerable difficulty in finding his way through the innumerable wheels, but no one seemed to notice him. A night's march through the rain had utterly taken the steel out of the troops. Next he passed the long Pontoon Train, which had been employed the previous day in crossing the Adda, and then came heavy columns of Infantry. But all crawled along miserably under the heavy rain, and the battalions occupied nearly the entire road, so that Herbert found it was even more difficult to get on. At length he reached the head of the column, exchanged a few words with the officers in advance, and then found a piece of open road again before him. Within an hour he entered the village of Casal, and, after de





livering his despatches, was enabled to enjoy the luxury of a tremendous fire.

Things looked decidedly more lively in the village; for the troops were drawn up along the streets, and the inhabitants gladly offered them meat and drink. Strangely enough, the Austrians en route to Milan were always saluted as "liberators," and though this expression was the result of the joy felt at the speedy cessation of hostilities, it showed that the people were beginning to recover their senses.

Within a week, as had been predicted, the campaign was ended; Charles Albert capitulated beneath the walls of Milan, and received his reward for the sacrifices he had made for an ungrateful country by being shot at in the city. The Sardinian troops were allowed to retire with all honours, and the Austrians marched in.

The campaign in Lombardy was over: Radetzky was enabled to rest on his laurels. for a season, and chose Milan as his head quarters. The war was, however, still raging





furiously in the Venetese, and all the available. troops were ordered to hold themselves in readiness to proceed there. Herbert, who thought he had had quite enough of campaigning, sent in his resignation, but he was induced by the Chief of the Staff to withdraw it, and he was offered an appointment on Haynau's staff, then commanding outside Venice; and as the duties were nearly nominal, and he would have the opportunity of being near Dymoke, the dénouement of whose love adventures he was anxious to see (for his battery was ordered down), he accepted the offer.

As, however, there was comparatively nothing doing before Venice, and the great fun would not commence till the spring of the ensuing year, Herbert was in no hurry to proceed to his new post, and, although Dymoke reproved him severely for his idleness, het could not be tempted to accept the offer which the young Major of Artillery (for Bertie had been again promoted for his gallant conduct in





the field) held out to him of being allowed to march with the battery.

Herbert declared he would never again cross a horse except on duty, and he owed it to himself to make up for the privations of the past campaign, and eat plenty of good dinners in preparation for the next. So, while Bertie was proceeding by slow marches toward Venice, grumbling at the confounded service, and yet consoled by the reflection that he was drawing nearer to his Marchioness, master Herbert was living on the fat of the land, and making up for all the miseries which had environed him ever since he had been foolish enough to go a soldiering.

While living in Milan, Herbert was considerably cheered by receiving a whole packet of letters written him by Blanche, and which, in sheer despair of finding him, had been kept back at the Post Office till he might apply for them. Strangely enough, when he came to analyse his feelings, he found that grim visaged war





had entirely knocked out of him all that sentimentality he had hitherto indulged in about Blanche. His heart was certainly cured, as she had predicted; and though no one had filled up the gap, he was quite in a condition to commence a flirtation or give way to a more serious passion.

Blanche's letters gave his thoughts a new direction, for they were full of Alice, and, to add to their weight she had sent him a photograph of that young lady, which he caught himself looking at far more than was at all necessary. There was no denying that she had



grown



into



a very lovely girl, and there was something decidedly refreshing about her simplicity; in short, Herbert before long began speculating as to whether he might not do worse than marry the young woman. Poor creature! it seemed she was so fond of him, and really, when he came to think on the subject, he fancied he could soon learn to like her, and so what with one thing and another, and nothing to distract





his thoughts from the object of his sentiment, he found himself writing to Blanche most affectionately about little Alley, and sending repeated messages to his old pupil.

But he occupied his time even in a better fashion by writing an account of the Campaign, which was brought out by a swell publisher, and gained him intense xudos. Indeed I purchased a copy last year at a book stall for the sum of two and ninepence, and, as the unlucky war necessitated my writing about a volume a month, I can assure you I found it most handy to crib from.

It possesses this singular merit, that it is the only book written by a military man about the events in which he was personally engaged, in which the first person singular does not appear in every line. More surprising still, the author in no instance attempts to show how, if he had been commander, he would have done so and So, moved up this battery, held that cavalry regiment in reserve, and so on; which if the general





commanding had done, why, then so and so must inevitably have occurred.

By the time this magnum opus was successfully achieved and on its way to England, Herbert's leave had expired, and with a rather reluctant heart he moved downwards on Venice. He had only received one letter from Bertie in the interval, but that was written in the highest spirits, for he had learned from a Swiss deserter that the Marchesa was still unmarried, and showed her zeal for the Austrian cause by visiting the hospitals and attending more especially to the Germans.

By the connivance of Theresa this unhappy devil had managed to escape, and kept his promise of delivering a message from her to Bertie. Things in the city began to look very queer, but unfortunately it was much the same in camp: the men were knocked over by hundreds by cholera and disease, and, unless a strong reinforcement was sent up, there was no chance of reducing the



E





city this side Christmas.



And as the city



did not eventually surrender till the ensuing August, Bertie was not such a very bad prophet.

With many a heavy groan at his own folly, Herbert set out for that most tedious of all military operations, the siege of a fortified town, and, had it not been for his promise to Bertie, I really believe he would have cut and run, sooner than undergo all the misery that awaited him. After loading a fourgon with comestibles, and laying in an extra chest of real Havannahs, he set off by railway, and soon joined Head Quarters at Mestre. He was kindly and hospitably welcomed, but, as he expected, his duties were reduced to a minimum, and as the city was now closely invested, there was scarce anything for an orderly officer to do.

Bertie, however, was in a very different position he had been appointed to the siege



:



artillery, as his popgun six-pounders were of





no service against the heavy armament the Venetians had at their disposal, and his duties were consequently very heavy. It was only at rare intervals that he could run up and join Heibert at the comfortable villa which had been assigned him for his quarters, and where the old steward who managed the estate treated him with a kindness which he could not at all account for.





CHAPTER IX.



MESTRE.



SAD was the change that had taken place in the cheerful little town of Mestre, when my hero visited it for the second time. At first the devastation produced by the war was not perceptible to the casual wayfarer,-the fields had assumed their glorious spring hues, the mulberry had pushed forth its buds, and the grape vine festooned gracefully from tree to tree, with its vivid green leaves: here and there too a herd of oxen might be seen, or a peasant lumbering to his field upon his clumsy bullock cart. Suddenly the scene





changed the hoarse muttering of artillery was



:



heard in the distance, and bombs burst with a bang in the air. War revealed its grim presence in all its atrocity.

On drawing nearer to the town the traveller saw to the right and left the numerous chateaux, where in happier days the nobility of Venice spent the summer months. But now they were silent and desolate. No brilliant carriages flashed along the road, nor was the sheen of silk visible amidst the dark foliage of the orange and pomegranate trees; the gates were fastened up and so were the shutters, the place seemed some vast city of the dead, all was so hushed and still.

In the suburbs of the town matters appeared a little more lively; the gates were open; near the sentry who walked quickly up and down, heedless of the bullets that pinged over his head, sat soldiers in blue cloaks and fatigue caps, performing all sorts of domestic duties.





Soldiers were walking about the broad sandy roads, others were leaning out of the windows, and if anything were seen fluttering among the orange and pomegranate shrubs, it was perchance a pipe-clayed belt, or ammunition sheets hung out to dry. The Austrian soldiers, who were so plagued by the oppressive siege duty, had tried to make themselves as comfortable as possible at the expense of their Venetian friends, and they appreciated the pleasant gardens and vaulted halls in which to rest from their day's toil.

The broad highway, too, soon became very animated. Through the fields on either side. came companies of Infantry, without their arms and in fatigue dress. They were returning from the siege-works, after putting up fascines and erecting batteries. Officers of the General Staff and their orderlies were riding backwards and forwards, and from the Villa Papadapoli a group of officers came cantering up, led by a tall thin man with a stern





face and sharp clear eyes, whose long beard. fluttered in the breeze. It was Haynau, the butcher of Brescia.

But in the town itself the greatest change had taken place. Of the inhabitants there was not a trace; nothing but soldiers upon soldiers could be seen. Here they sat in rows under the shady trees, resting from their day's work and smoking their pipes. There others were cleaning their sabres and muskets, which had grown rather rusty from long disuse, for the only weapons the troops now employed were pick and spade.

At the little fountain where the market women used to freshen up and cleanse their vegetables, artillerymen were washing the wheels of their guns. But everybody seemed happy and contented, amusing himself after his fashion. At one place a man belonging to a border regiment sang a mournful ditty brought from home, and the black eyes glistened and the dark faces were contracted





by melancholy and pardonable nostalgia. A Bohemian, too, had managed somehow to procure a fiddle, on which he played merry tunes, to which Hungarians bounded round in delight.

The market-place was very lively and cheerful.

Those officers not on duty made this spot their rendezvous, and smoked and drank and gambled at the little coffee-house, regardless of the iron showers incessantly hurtling over their heads. Had it not been for a bomb bursting now and then in the centre of the square, and scattering destruction around, or an impertinent cannon-ball forcing its way through the walls, there was nothing to evidence the presence of war.

But, to compensate for this, there were many streets in Mestre that looked gloomy and desolate enough; they were those running from the market-place to the Grand Canal, on the side towards Fort Malghera. Here the houses had been long deserted, and the





brave riflemen who had taken up



their quarters



in them had been forced to retire step by step. The garrison of Malghera found a pleasure in expending the imperial ammunition that had cost them nothing, on the roofs of their own hapless town of Mestre; and scarcely a quarter of an hour passed without a heavy ball clashing through the walls.

Many of the buildings on this side of the town were mere heaps of ashes, and these streets the soldiers were forbidden entering; the shutters were torn down, the balconies destroyed, and if a curious officer dared to creep along them and take a cautious survey of the beleaguered fort, his footsteps sounded hollow and mournful.

Most melancholy of all was the sight of that spot on the Grand Canal where Bertie and Herbert had entered the gondola 15 months before. What a difference between now and then not one of the noisy chattering crowd then collected there was visible: the boats,






the barges and the gondolas-all had disap peared; there were no piles of luscious vegetables, no baskets of gay and fragrant flowers. The surface of the water was deserted and idle, and the landing-place, formerly so crowded, was now occupied by a frowning battery, whose guns threatened Malghera.

On leaving the market-place and walking a short distance along the Vicenza road, a deserted country house was visible. It dated from a former and happier age. It was built of red bricks, and displayed all the fantastic ornamentation of which architects in those days were so proud. But the handiwork of war was visible here: the handsome iron gates had been torn down and creaked on their hinges, while many a bullet mark could be traced on the walls.

Despite the danger, Herbert and Bertie had come to this house with a couple of engineer officers, who by means of a map were inspecting the operations against Malghera.





"Vederemo!" said the younger engineer, as he folded up the map, "but I fancy we shall not do much with our new parallel and weak batteries."

"Of course we cannot dismount the works. of Malghera," said the other, "but the moral effect will be great when we open a tremendous cannonade upon them."





Ah, bah!" the other replied, "if you talk seriously with these Italian beggars in the open field they can be easily terrified but behind stone walls they fight as well as any troops. Besides, what magnificent ammunition we left them! I am ready to break my heart at the thought of it. They have in the fort close on 200 bran new guns, all of imperial metal, and here we must lie before our own fortress and run a risk of being drowned if we dig too deep a trench."

"The more difficulties the more glory!" Bertie interposed thoughtfully. "Our cause must succeed!"





"Of course there's no fear on that score,' the engineer remarked; "nothing would be impossible with such an army as ours. They work indefatigably, and laugh at all the shells and balls that the rebels fire upon them from morning to night."

"My only fear is about the weather; we shall soon have it very hot, and then half the army will be down with fever."

Well, then, we must only work all the harder," the other engineer remarked, pointing to the map; "look there, we shall have a second parallel along this line and plenty of ammunition. But I must be off into the trenches,-tschau!"

With these words the four officers separated, Bertie and Herbert proceeding arm in arm toward Mestre. They did not, however, follow the high road, but turned off to the left where the trenches began.

"Before we proceed to the batteries," Bertie said thoughtfully, "I must show you a very





cozy quiet spot, which I am sure will please you our cemetery. Look there, the poor fellows lie so many hundred miles from their home beneath the shade of the mulberry and the grape. You must allow that this spot is more like a garden than a grave-yard."

"In truth, there is nothing melancholy about it," Herbert replied, "and any man destined to fall here can have no objection to be buried in so pleasant a spot.”

"Look too how kindly the graves have been tended."

So it was amid the long grass that covered the spot, the mounds had been carefully piled up over the fallen, and adorned, some with crosses simply formed of branches of trees, but others with garlands, and some little pictures of saints. There the dead lay together in solemn peace, while a military salute was continually fired over their graves from Fort Malghera.

"They do not rest," said Bertie with a melancholy smile, "and there is plenty of room





here. If you stay long enough with us, you may perchance pay me a visit at this spot. It will grow very warm here presently, and I have a strange fancy that my bullet is lying ready for me in Malghera."

"Pshaw, man, you are hipped. You've no right to entertain such gloomy thoughts: why, hundreds of your comrades envy you. Here you are a Major, and have every prospect of further promotion, and yet you begin to funk when the danger is the smallest."

Thence they proceeded through the trenches to the batteries of the first parallel, which was nearly completed. From this place Malghera could be distinctly seen, every work decorated with a tricolor, and the red trowsered garrison hurrying about. They never thought of saving ammunition: every minute a ball came whizzing along, grazing the edge of the trench, or smashing a poor tree in the rear.

"There lies Venice!" said Bertie, pointing to the destroyed Lagune bridge to the right of





Malghera "I never thought we should have so much trouble in reducing our own fortress.

And we are not in there yet.'





Herbert was uncomfortable at his friend's despondency, and determined to turn the con



versation.





By the way, I forgot to ask if you had heard anything more about the Marchesa? Is she still in the city, or has she fled like so many others ? "

"I wrote to you how I heard about her from a deserter, and since that time I have no news. I know she is in Venice, for she will not leave her father; God knows how it will all end!"

"Better than you think, perhaps. How can the Marchesa help her father being a Venetian and yielding to the current? Every one of ours knows her sentiments, and the black and yellow flag on her gondola will not be so easily forgotten."

"Thank you, old boy, for trying to encour





age me, but I cannot get over the idea that I shall end my days here; but come, let us return to Mestre, we have sat here long enough and shown our uniforms to the Italians. I see two fellows up there looking this way with their telescopes, and something will soon come of it. Though I have no objection to be shot on duty, I will not, by my want of caution, draw a shot, this way, which may annoy the trench-workers.



Come down!"



"Wait a minute," said Herbert with a laugh, "there's a sharp flash from Fort Rizzardi; that's meant for us."

And so it was, for he had scarce uttered the words when a 24-pound ball whizzed past, not an inch from him, throwing up a heap of sand and stones, which Herbert shook off with a laugh, and leapt down into the trench. This was followed by some half-dozen more shells, which sunk deep into the sand, causing no further injury than levelling a few boards put up to protect the workmen.





The bombardment of Malghera, which commenced at mid-day on the fifth of May, from five batteries in the advanced parallel, though it surprised the enemy considerably, did not produce the desired effect. The firing did no great injury to the works, even if the bombs produced considerable mischief inside the fort, blowing away the chains of the iron drawbridge and destroying the main guard. The officer commanding in Malghera was a man of great energy (General Ulloa, lately commanding in Tuscany), and he managed to reply to the besiegers so effectually that he fired about six shots to their one.

The siege works, though so carefully prepared, were furrowed by balls, and the batteries covered with the enemy's shower of iron. It was no longer possible to count the rounds, or distinguish where the firing took place. Wreathed in smoke and dust, the brave Austrians stood to their few guns and listened with amazement to the terrible fire that responded





to their salutation. The whistling of the cannon-balls, the whizzing and crash of the shells, was indescribable and incessant; the enemy's balls flew across by hundreds-a hail-storm of the most destructive nature. In the midst of it the artillerymen kept to their work as quietly as if on the exercising ground, and though many a brave comrade was laid low, and many a fine gun smashed by the enemy's fire, fresh strength was pushed up to the front until nightfall, when the guns were all dismounted and the enemy also gradually lessened their fire.

It can easily be imagined that during this time the excitement in Mestre was intense Any one who was off duty mounted to the top of the old Guelph Tower, whence the magnificent sight could be best observed. There the whole affair was spread out as if on a map; the firing lasted till night, and as it gradually grew darker the spectacle became superb. The shells, whose flight could not be watched by day, now traced their huge curves in flash





:



ing sparks, and when they fell, a bright flame burst forth, followed by a dull detonation.

More beautiful still was the meteoric flight of the enormous rockets, which were fired at intervals from the Fort,-more it seemed as an amusement than for any injury they caused.

Of course Herbert was watching the spectacle, and by his side Bertie leant over the parapet.

"Really," he remarked, "it is scandalous how those scoundrels waste his Majesty's ammunition. It seems as if they were determined to expend a certain quantity every day."

"I feel so sorry for the splendid rockets," saidanother artillery officer, in a deep bass voice; "for it took so much trouble to make them, and they do not know how to use them."

"Why, they are perfect muffs with the rockets," another officer observed; "just lookthere! hardly one describes the proper curve. It is a perfect insult to us.'





"They've burnt their fingers smartly with





them already," Bertie said with a laugh; "a deserter recently told us that many of them had burst, or run backwards among the service





"Serve 'em right," said the first artillery officer, puffing away furiously at his cigar.



seen.



For a few moments no rockets were fired, and the only shots noticed were from the heavy Paixhans in Fort Rizzardi. The tremendous charge of powder lit up the embrasure, and the throng round the gun could be distinctly Directly after, however, black night hid them from sight again. Beyond the Fort the Lagune shimmered, dark clouds coursed athwart the sky, and the gleam of a light could now and then be distinguished in Venice. In the batteries and in the Fort all appeared to be tired, the rounds grew rarer and gradually ceased.

The officers on the tower, no longer amused by the flight of the rockets, now formed in groups





and conversed about the results of the cannonade. All at once Bertie said sharply:

"Is there any one among you who has good eyes-I mean eyes that can distinguish in the dark?"




"You mean cat's eyes ?" said an artillery officer with a laugh. Well, here is a comrade from the marine artillery, and they can all see through a stone wall; what do you want of him? "

"I happen to have a night-glass with me," the young officer said as he stepped forward: "where am I to look?"

"Look down there," Bertie said: "



you can



barely distinguish the outline of Fort Rizzardi -now, travel a little to the left and use your glass.




The naval officer obeyed orders. "Yes,yes," he said after a steady gaze; "there is something moving to leeward of the fort."





"I thought so," Bertie remarked as he took





the glass from the other; they are going to diversify the amusements with a sally. Well! our men will be all alive."

For nearly a quarter of an hour all remained perfectly quiet, but then a couple of musket shots were fired between the batteries and the Fort, and in a second a line of flame flashed forth. The trench guard replied, and the firing went on for some time very smartly. However, the batteries soon came into play with such effect that the assailants were glad to retire.

"I hope our men won't be excited," said an elderly officer; "it is quite plain what the Italians intend. Our people are to be kind enough to follow them up, and when they have been seduced under the guns of the Fort, the fire will commence once more in earnest."

Gradually the assailants fell back on the Fort, but the Austrians evinced no inclination to leave their earthworks in pursuit of them.





The caution was justifiable, for suddenly a heavy rocket blazed into the air from the fort.

"Now they are bombarding the sky," an infantry man said with a laugh.

"Not exactly," Bertie replied," look out." The rocket, after attaining a considerable elevation, burst, and a bright yellow glare flashed forth, gradually increasing in size, until at length a brilliant ball slowly floated in the air. It was a light rocket, and it illumined the ground for an immense distance. The enemy employed it on this occasion to enable their artillery to open fire on the pursuers, but they were disappointed. However, the Italians could not lose their fun, so the guns were all discharged in rapid succession. In a few minutes the fortress was again enveloped in fire and smoke: bomb-shells flew through the air, rockets whizzed in every direction, and at intervals other light rockets threw a yellow tinge over the weird scene.





re



Now they'll go on till daybreak," Bertie said, as he pulled out his watch, and looked at the time by the light of his cigar: "I am fortunate in having to go to the trenches at this moment, for there is so much light that I run no risk of breaking my shins over a fascine. Well, good-bye, all; it is midnight and I have work to attend to."

"I'll go with you," said Herbert, "I should like to have a look at your nightwork."

"You'd better let it be for to-night," Bertie replied seriously, "you can learn nothing, but run a good risk of coming into awkward collision with a shell; and suppose you had an arm shot off, you'd gain no glory by it, and to-morrow the most that would be said would be, "Que diable allait-il faire dans cette galére?' You'd better ride home to your villa, and get a snug little breakfast ready for me to-morrow morning; when I'm relieved I'll come up to you. Addio, Addio!"

Such was the practical and unsympathizing





way in which Bertie nipped his friend's courage in the bud. For my part, though, I think

he was perfectly in the right. What do you say, O reader? At any rate, Herbert took the hint and retired to his quarters.





CHAPTER X.



THE DOOMED CITY.



HAD any traveller been able to enter the city of the Lagunes during this awful period of trial, he would have found even more mournful changes than those visible at Mestre. Although the latter town had been roughly treated, and no inhabitants were to be seen save soldiers; still the regular movements of the troops produced a feeling of security, as is, indeed, always the case with large masses of men, who obey the mandate of a commander. In Venice, however, at this mournful period every one tried to order, and none would obey; hence the con





fusion was deafening. The poor old Island Queen in her feverish fancy had sprung up from her tottering throne, and swung her sword with a palsied hand, though not to wound others, but to inflict a mortal and suicidal blow on herself.

The fort of Malghera had been evacuated on the 26th of May, and every arrangement had been made in the city to check the advance of the Austrians: bridges were pulled down, barricades erected in the canals, the real streets of Venice, by sinking old vessels, and piling on them beams and stones: attempts had been made to convert the palaces, at every important point, into small forts; in short everything had been done to offer a warm resistance to a foe mad enough to attempt to take the city by



storm.



The city was thronged with human beings: thousands had sought shelter here from the plains, Roman and Tuscan soldiers and volunteers had assembled to defend the last strong





hold of liberty, though many were actuated by a more ignoble motive, that of leading a reckless life a short time longer. Here might be found the most contrasting nationalities and the most extraordinary bodies of troops, whose name was the best thing about them. Thirty or forty deserters had been formed into a Hungarian Legion, and it was hoped they would become a nucleus, round which other deserters from the besieging army would congregate. But the tree was rotten and bore no fruit.

I read in a work on the siege by a Swiss officer that this Legion hardly attained the strength of half a company, and even to reach this figure was obliged to incorporate several non-Hungarians. This pompously titled corps, about which exaggerated notions were formed outside, was reduced to exactly 56 men, chiefly prisoners and deserters. All the Venetian troops shunned them like the plague: for they were the dirtiest and longest-fingered men





in the city, and furnished many examples of



the latter qualification.



The most respectable looking body was the Student Corps, but though very brave they possessed no military qualities. As they chose their own officers, the natural consequence was that they paid these creatures of their own selection not the slightest obedience. There was also a Dalmatian Company in the city, which was a perfect nuisance, for it created a mutiny in Malghera after the first bombardment and had to be disarmed and sent back to the city. Among the other troops who crowded into Venice, Neapolitans, Romans, Tuscans, &c., there were, however, many excellent elements, but they lacked an efficient Commander-inChief. The people governed, and the man who to-day was at the height of popularity and invested with supreme authority on St Mark's Place, was to-morrow imprisoned or perhaps shot.*

So long as Venice had an unimpeded com





munication with the high seas, there was no scarcity of provisions, and all revelled in luxury: but so soon as the Sardinian fleet was compelled to withdraw, and the Austrians commenced a blockade, a great scarcity began to be felt. Beef was hardly to be bought, wine fetched double the usual price, and oil and butter were so dear that the Cardinal Patriarch allowed food to be cooked on a fast day with suet and lard. The mills which supplied the city with meal, being no longer fed from the mainland, could not satisfy the wants of the multitude; and the consequence was that the people collected in crowds round the bakers' shops, and waited till the scanty allowance could be doled out.

As a natural consequence, no one thought of regular employment: the greater part of the population left their houses at day-break and lounged about the streets and squares to hear the news and scheme how to procure a meal: but they generally ended by collecting before





St Mark's and kicking up a row to draw the president of the republic out on the balcony.

Before the Palazzo Poppoli two gondolas

were lying, on the day when our story carries us to Venice: the gondoliers were respectably dressed and evidently belonged to the family one was old, the other young.

"Cospetto," said the latter, "I am getting tired of waiting on this desolate canal. Were we still at the Piazzetta a fellow might creep away and look at the row on the great Place."

"Oh!" said the other gondolier, "as far as that is concerned, I prefer this spot where I hear nothing of the disgraceful riot. You'll have enough of it yet. The Madonna aid us ! what a life we lead here!"

"Well! I don't dislike it,-little to do, a good deal of amusement, evvivas and music the whole day, and fireworks gratis."

"I wish they'd set fire to you," the old man growled, "I can quite understand the life here suits you. You come from Ferrara :





so what do you care for Venice? the family is rich, the board well covered, and our wages are paid in silver of course that suits you. But I, an old Venetian with a large family to support, could tell you what a hard matter it is to endure all this trouble, which one did not help to bring about.'





"Certainly," the younger gondolier replied, leaning as gracefully as he could on his oar, "but remember that, as you have a large family, when all is over, you will consequently receive a larger share of the reward than I an individual shall."

"Reward!" said the old man, shrugging his shoulders contemptuously, "what do you mean by that?"

"Liberty!" the other replied, raising his hand towards Heaven, as if he had been one of the chorus in Don Giovanni.

The old gondolier lifted his oar a couple of yards from the water: "listen to me," he said. in a voice trembling with passion, "if I hear





that word pass your lips again, I shall take my share of liberty-I swear it by my patron Saint-and fell you to the ground so that you won't rise again in a hurry. Liberty? -you scoundrel, you did not know Venice thirty years ago, decrepid and worn out with old age, nor seen how it began to bloom again during what you call its serfdom. You know nothing of the choked canals, the broken banks and bridges, the tottering houses,—in a word all the repairs required to render Venice habitable once more. But I know that this took place under the black and yellow flag, which may God protect! and know too how the poor city has fared since the tricolor, the banner of liberty, as you call it, flutters over In this one year we have gone back



us.



fifty."



After cautiously retreating out of harm's way, the young fellow remarked, "Oh! those are only slight sacrifices which a Patriot does not take into account."





"You are a Patriot!" the old man said with

flashing eye. "Then, go and enrol yourself, ask for weapons, and serve your Italian country





"I do so already: I zealously serve my respected master Count Dalti, and I interest myself in the welfare of the state as far as I can. I take the paper money of the Moneta del comune, when obliged to do so, and if you'll look through the offerto alla patria in the newspaper, you'll find that I gave four lire about a week ago.





At this moment another servant sprang down the steps, and threw a lady's cloak into one of the gondolas. He was followed closely by the lady of the house and Count Dalti, who was dressed in the uniform of the Venetian Artillery. The young lady seemed very pale and thoughtful, and there was a dark frown too on her face, as if produced by some recent conversation. She pressed her lips.





firmly together, as she walked to the bottom



of the steps.



Both gondolas hurried up, and the old man thrust his boat so cleverly and powerfully against the other that his comrade, who had not the politeness to let the lady get in first, tottered and nearly fell into the canal.

"You are very clumsy, Antonio," the Count said, "though perhaps it was done on purpose. Why need you push up so quickly?"

"We don't mind a shove, Sir Count! We are used to it," the old man replied quietly, "but he is no true and honest gondolier: he has n't his sea legs."

The Count shrugged his shoulders, and turned to his companion to say, "What can I do in the matter? were he one of my people, I would transfer him to some strict company, where he would learn subordination. But he is in your immediate service, and so, of course, can say and do what he pleases."





A dark frown crossed the lady's face at these words, and she gave a signal to the gondolier, who immediately backed from the stairs, though not forgetting to give his comrade another smart thrust as he passed.

"What would you, Count?" the Marchesa replied with a frosty smile; "your people do just the same. This is an unhappy and divided house!"

"You are right," the young Venetian interposed: "the house is unhappily divided. But who is to blame for it? How comes one of the noblest families in Venice to be accused of holding with the enemy? who futilizes our patriotic efforts? who causes the finger of scorn to be pointed at us and the word traditore to be muttered as we pass?"



r



Surely not I?" the lady replied, turning on him like lightning. "Everyone knows my sentiments: but knows too," she added with a sigh, "that I remained by my father's





side, though heart and thoughts are elsewhere. What would you, Count?" she continued with increased excitement. "Since I have been compelled to remain here and live under the tricolor, have I not done more for your cause than any other lady of my station ? "



ce



In the hospitals where the German soldiers lie," the Venetian remarked, sarcastically, though with a deep reverence, "you are called their providence. But," he added, hastily, "why these disputes, Donna Emilia-why renew them again and again? I must go to my battery. Let us part in amity, and tonight I shall again be at your service."

The lady appeared suddenly to have forgotten her anger, for she said with a smile, "You can accompany me, cousin: put me down at the Piazzetta-it will not be much out of your way."

"Eh, eh?" the young Venetian remarked, a darker cloud passing over his swarthy face, you want to get me into a scrape, Signora.





Perhaps you will ask me to escort you over St Mark's Place."

"I trust you would consider it a high honour."

"Yes and no, fair cousin. It would be the greatest possible distinction for a cavalier to appear in public with the Marchesa Popoli : but to walk across St Mark's with a lady. avowedly professing Austrian sentiments might lead to dangerous remarks."

The Marchesa shrugged her shoulders contemptuously, and walked to her gondola, her

waiting maid following her.

his oar, and the light bark



Antonio shipped

glided like a bird



over the water, and shot down the Canal Grande. The gondola soon reached the Piazzetta and Antonio turned an inquiring glance on his mistress. She made him a sign to draw up to the two pillars, but before the clever old fellow could make up his mind to do so, he could not refrain from saying,





crowded, and I hear music; I fancy a parade



is being held."



"What care I?" the young lady replied, contemptuously, "surely I am allowed to go whither I please."

"Perhaps your Grace will allow me to make a remark," the gondolier continued; "the people are not in the best temper. The evacuation of Malghera has turned their heads, one hears nothing but tradimento and traditore, and if an enemy of our house were to see you -and we have enough of them-one of them might be impudent enough to make some daring remark to my honoured mistress."

"In this free city?" the Marchesa asked with a smile of disdain; "I will venture it, at any rate. To shore!" The young lady knew not fear, yet she drew her veil closer to her face, but only because it was the fashion in those days among the ladies; then she walked firmly up the steps. Antonio took a rapid glance around, called to another gondolier, and





after whispering a couple of words to him, hurried after his mistress.

A strange commotion was going on in St Mark's square it almost resembled a slight tumult. The entire square was covered by a dense crowd, which ebbed and flowed in the direction of the Piazzetta. There was a babel of shouts, whistling, laughing, singing, and at times a couple of words could be distinguished uttered by specially powerful lungs, while at others the rataplan of the drums and the sound of the brass band rose above the tumult. The President was holding a parade, and he had just explained to the Venetians the reasons for evacuating the utterly dismounted Malghera. He had alluded to the perseverance of the garrison, and assured the worthy Venetians that they had gained a loss by the evacuation. He was convinced the whole nation would fight to the death tr so continue," he concluded his address, "in your perseverance, trust in Maria the Virgin, and we must be victors."





But all these fine words were insufficient to satisfy the disturbed hearts of the Venetian populace. Though, from one part of the square, a stormy evviva, Manin, was raised, at other points murmurs of dissatisfaction were heard, and the favourite words "traditore! tradimento!" These were not, however, directed to the President, but to the brave defenders of the Malghera, officers and men, who had performed marvels before the foe, and received their reward from the fickle mob after the usual fashion. On this day, the merry populace seemed in a very serious humour, and old Antonio, who had followed the two women, tried the church door, in hopes of finding refuge there, as the crowd was so dense that it was impossible to pass. But the door was fast.

"I don't care!" said a wild-looking fellow, leaning against one of the pillars, to his comrade, "for all their palaver, they need not have given up the fortress. I know a worthy man





who was out there: he told me the Austrians did scarcely any harm, for all the balls flew over their heads; and yet our braves were forced to retire."

"But why?" a couple of men asked who had come up at the moment.

The first speaker assumed a diabolical grin, looked savagely around, and said:

"What will you? tradimento!





'Yes, yes," others exclaimed. "The officers betrayed us."

"A double treason," the first man continued.

"And why did they betray us?"

"To give up the Fort to the Austrians."

"But why?"



"I will tell you, I have it from my brave comrade. Because the Austrians are starving and the Fort is chock full of provisions. Casks casks full of flour, rum, wine, oil-enough to feed all Venice for a week."



upon



"Ha, traditori!"





And the nearest took up the cry of traditori, which ran like wild-fire across the wide square, But as these were merely suppositions, the worthy orator sought to give them a more tangible shape.

"Don't believe," he continued, "that the poor soldiers, or even all the officers, were traitors. And, indeed, what could the poor fellows do but obey? But whence came these orders? Where lurks the treason ?-Here in Venice!"

Tradimento in Venitia ! the cry rang through the place, and several voices were heard yelling, "Fori Manin!"

It was nothing new to the President to be summoned in this fashion, and give the people satisfactory replies to the most unreasonable questions. On this occasion, however, he appeared to have had enough of it, and paid no attention to their shouts. But if the President were obstinate, the people were more so.

"The treason is here," the fellow before the





church went on; as I said, if they command here, those without must obey-and the Austrians have seized an enormous store.





"Who takes care of our provisions ?" a hoarse voice in the mob shouted: "why have we a Committee-why does it not protect us?" "There you have it!" the first speaker coolly continued, as he thrust his red cap over his eye. "Who are the Committee? fine gentlemen, who know nothing of our wants ; they don't eat bread in their palaces, because they have plenty of meat; they don't want oil, bless you, for they have plenty of fresh butter. They are the traitors!"

And again the cry ran along the crowd, "Treason, treason, the Provision Committee have betrayed us!" and a thousand hoarse throats took up the cry, "Manin, fori Manin!"

Antonio was close by the side of the man with the red cap; he had thrust himself for ward in the hope of concealing his young misThe cry of "fori Manin!" grew



tress.





stronger every moment, until the President found himself compelled to appear at the window, and he ordered silence with his hand. "What do you want?" he shouted. "Tradimento!" was the thousand-voiced reply. "We are betrayed, Manin."

The old story! who has betrayed you now ?"

"Down with the Provision Committee ! " the fellow with the red cap and his partizans shouted. And "down with them!" the obedient mob took up the cry.

The President made a disdainful movement. with his hand, and replied after a slight pause, "What do you want? it is ever the same cry. The Committee is composed of honourable men whom you selected and know. Be off home!" "A name!" the fellow in the red cap whispered; "you must give a name,-say the Marchese Poppoli, he has always been a friend of the Austrians. Name him-name himhis is a rich house, and perhaps we can





manage a little quiet plunder." And obeying these directions first ten, then twenty, then a hundred voices shouted, "the Marchese Poppoli is a traitor! he is in league with the enemy and gave up Malghera!"

This statement was so utterly absurd, that the President walked away from the window without a reply. The Marchese was in fact one of the most zealous patriots; he had sacrificed a portion of his fortune to the desperate cause, and this was to be his reward. Thousands, who had hitherto considered the Marchese well-minded, were suddenly convinced that he was a traitor, and for a moment his house and life were in imminent peril. Fortunately, the troops were still in the square, and could disperse the impudent mob.

But a quicker punishment awarded red-cap, for hardly had Antonio heard his master's name, than, forgetting all prudence, he seized the fellow by the throat and squeezed it as if in a vice. Of course they were separated in a





moment, but the mob turning round now noticed the two females beneath the portico, and they were immediately recognized.

Ah, Signora!" a voice was heard to exclaim, "you have come to listen to us, have you ?"

"You see, comrades," another said, "we are nowhere safe from spies."

"The Marchesa Poppoli," said red-cap ironically, "under the glorious banner of Italy. The lady is pale," he continued, "but that is easily understood, for she has hitherto been accustomed to see the black and yellow flag fluttering over her head."

"Just as at the last regatta," a woman yelled; Giuseppe, you have not forgotten



that."



cr



"We all know it," several men exclaimed. "But we will punish the traitor!" others added.

Manin had been uttering a few loud words from the window, and the troops now wheeled,





to return to their barracks. The people made way on all sides, except those in front of St Mark's Church, who were just about rushing on the two ladies and the gondolier. Fortunately, a company of brave and disciplined Swiss had been drawn up near the three masts, and as they wheeled and marched off the ground they passed close to the church portico, and swept the crowd away. Antonio sprang toward one of the officers and told him in a few words what was going on. The Marchesa was as pale as death, and passively allowed the officer to lead her between two of the sections.

"Eh!" said one of the soldiers, "that is the noble lady who so often came to the Great Hospital."

"And was so good and kind," another added; "what do the Welshers want with her?" "Don't know," the first retorted, " but

only let the gallows-birds come on.



There are



a couple of scoundrels who evidently mean

mischief. Back, you thieves!"





In truth the whole band, the red-cap leading them, followed the ladies and the Swiss, and one or two now and then pushed through the ranks, which, however, was the worse for them, as the soldiers thrust them back very roughly with the butt-ende of their muskets. Thus they crossed the Piazzetta and reached the skirt of the Lagune, where two large boats were awaiting the Swiss regiments to carry them across to the Fort St Pietro in Volta.

Antonio, perfectly aware of what should be done under the circumstances, left the ranks, bounded into his gondola, and brought it up close to the steps by the side of the soldiers' boats. The old fellow took up his oar, and after the young lady had thanked the officer for his protection, the gondola flew with lightning speed over the water, but soon quitted the Grand Canal as a necessary precaution, and hurried along through a labyrinth of small waterways, till they reached the back entrance of the palace.





During the passage, however, the Marchesa had been enabled to hold a conversation with old Theresa, which wonderfully cheered her spirits and made her forget the peril she had escaped. During these cruel times Theresa had become a confidante rather than a servant, and hence we need feel no surprise at the apparently intimate terms on which they stood.

"Ah! Signora, these are hard times indeed," the old waiting-maid began, “and the servants are beginning to complain of the way in which the Count treats them. Only to-day he examined them all very sharply and has now put a guard round the Palazzo.'





"He declares that some deserters were seen

in the vicinity of the palace, and no one knows

what became of them afterwards."

"Well! it is no concern of mine!"

"But-" old Theresa said after a long





pause and stammering woundily-"Ah, Signora, it is of great import to me!"





How, Theresa, what do you mean? is there any truth in the matter?

"Unhappily, Signora !"

"And you know about it?"





The waiting-woman nodded her head timidly, and looked at the same time searchingly at her mistress, as if to convince herself whether she might dare to make a further revelation.





"Theresa! the Marchesa added after a pause, “you were in the wrong; that is a dangerous game to play."





"May I speak, Signora ?--In the Great Hospital, whither I at times accompanied you, I found two poor Germans who had reached this city through strange accidents, and now bitterly repented having fought against their own countrymen. They were quite in despair, and implored me to aid them in their flight.





They wanted money and clothes, and I pro



cured them both."

"Theresa!"



"I could not help it, gracious Lady, and I had a good object in view."

"I can hardly think so, Theresa!"

"Yes, yes! I cannot conceal anything. Antonio and I helped them to escape, and in order that they might have a shelter over there, I gave them the name of a young Austrian officer, in return for which I made them promise-”



'



Good Heavens!" the Marchesa exclaimed,

"what have you done?"



tr



"I made them promise," the waiting-maid continued, "that when they arrived, they would let me know by a harmless letter if the somebody they sought were in Mestre."

Here the clever woman paused and thoughtfully regarded her mistress. A sudden blush suffused the Marchesa's lovely face; she leant.





her head on her hand, and it was some time

ere she looked up again. Then she said in a very gentle voice:



"Well! what then?"





Then;" the confidante repeated joyfully, "I received this morning a letter."

"From whom?" the Marchesa hurriedly asked.

"From the old steward of your Villa between Mestre and Treviso.

• Until a few days back the

uninhabited, and we had no



He writes:

Villa was

one quar



tered on us. Now, we have an orderly officer to General Haynau, who lives very quietly.'

"An orderly?" the Marchesa asked in a tone of disappointment.

'Who keeps very quiet,' the waitingwoman read on; he receives few visitors, but an artillery officer, Major Dymoke, repeatedly comes to the Villa."





"Ah!" said the young lady, as she blushed the second time.

"It is a very harmless letter, which anyone might read."





smile, "but I did not make him my confidant, and as regards the deserters-"

"I trust we shall hear no more on that subject," the young lady interrupted her in a



serious tone.



a



"No, certainly not!" Theresa replied with

laugh; "the Count wastes his time in watching the Palazzo.'





A wonderful change came over the Signora when she walked into the Palazzo, and hurried to meet her father and warn him of the danger to which he was exposed. Now she felt no fear, knowing that Bertie was close at hand to protect her, and the idea ripened in her mind that her father and she ought to fly, ere





worse befell them. Fortunately, she found her father in an excellent humour to second her wishes. Although it was nothing new for men who had most zealously served the "good cause," who sacrificed fortune, health, even life itself to be branded by a few wretched ruffians on St Mark's Place and honoured with the name of traditori; still the haughty Marchese Poppoli could not forgive the insults heaped upon his family. He sat chewing the cud in his study, thinking over all that he had done for this ungrateful city, and gnashed his teeth at the treatment he had this day experienced.

The Marchese had been one of the first to form a conspiracy against the authorities, and had laboured intensely to overthrow the constituted power. He had done all this, as he thought, with the best object; and though during the last year many doubts had assailed him, and he thought seriously about the end of the tragedy, still the idea that, if the good cause succeeded, he might become the Doge or





President of the Republic was a very tempting prize. His name was on everybody's lips; hitherto he had been great and powerful. And all this had changed with a breath: according to the verdict of the people he was a traitor, and he found himself expelled from the ranks. of the men for whom he had made such heavy sacrifices.

The Marchese, however, was a man of rapid decision thus, when his daughter told him of the terrible events on St Mark's Place, and threw herself on his breast in despair, he opened his arms to her, for the first time since many a day, and kissing her on her snowy brow, said:

"Oh, my daughter! it is possible that I have made a dreadful mistake: I have a foreboding of it, although not yet fully convinced. But I shall never forget that, although you entertained such different views, you endured so much that was painful to you for my sake."

This day was marked with misfortune for





Venice, for on the same evening, about ten o'clock, a terrible explosion rent the air, and the inhabitants trembled in their houses, and fancied the enemy had begun to bombard the city from some hitherto invisible battery. Although this was not the case, a frightful calamity had befallen the city: the great powder mills, Alle Graize, had blown up, and the populace crowded St Mark's once again with their stereotyped cry of vengeance on the imaginary traitors.








CHAPTER XI.



THE BRIDGE OF DEATH.



ANY one enabled to witness the siege of a city after the comfortable fashion my hero did it, must necessarily regard it as a mere pleasure excursion. In the morning he rode to town to see were anything going on, spent a great portion of the day in the trenches, regardless of the bullets that whizzed around him; and when twilight set in, he often drew his sabre and joined the trench guard in repulsing the enemy's sallies. This, however, was the light side of his life: but when night set, and heavy fogs brooded over the earth, which carried off





more victims than the enemies' bullets, he had nothing better to do than take leave of his friends at the café, light a cigar, and canter home to his quarters.

These night-rides possessed an extraordinary attraction for Herbert; the darkness into which he went out, the glistening and banging of the guns on his right from Malghera, San Giuliano, Campoldo, St Secundo, and other batteries, and, at times, the thunder outvieing the cannonade—all these, I say, rendered the ride home most attractive.

The old steward at the villa had latterly grown more than ever attentive to him. Although Herbert thought two rooms quite enough for his use, still, every evening, when he returned home, he found the house lighted

up in his honour. As, however, he generally dined in the town, and his servant prepared his breakfast, he had, as yet, found no opportunity for judging of the kitchen capacities of the villa.





One day, shortly after the capture of Malghera, he returned home accompanied by Bertie, who had been busily engaged all the past night, and now came up to have a couple of hours' gossip with his friend. They rode at a sharp trot through the park and got down at the front entrance. The sun had not yet set, and now illuminated the splendid casino. In a moment the old steward opened the door of the house, and asked whether the officers were ready for dinner. Herbert looked at him in amazement, and answered Bertie's enquiring glance with a shrug of his shoulders.





My good sir," he then turned to the old man, “I was not aware that I had received any



invitation."



The steward replied with a deep bow:

"As your honour returned home so early today, I thought you might like a little dinner. Besides," he added with a smile, "you have made such slight demands on our hospitality,



འ





that I have been anxiously awaiting the opportunity to press it upon you."

Well, I do not mind," Herbert said laughingly. "It would not be polite to refuse so kindly an invitation. I say, Bertie, I suppose we accept the dinner ?"

"Oh, of course," the latter said, not sorry for the chance.

Both, therefore, followed the old man, who walked before them with innumerable rever



ences.



A library adjoined Herbert's quarter, this was followed by a billiard-room, a small musichall, and then came a plain but most elegant dining-room. All were brilliantly illuminated, and when Bertie expressed his surprise at this he received from the steward the smiling reply, that they knew how to treat welcome guests properly: the rooms were lighted up in this fashion every night, but their guest had never yet set foot in them.





"That is true," Herbert remarked with a laugh, "but who could have supposed that you make such a lavish expenditure of wax candles for my sake?

The dinner was in every respect worthy of the princely arrangements of the villa, and the friends confessed they had not dined so excellently since they had left Paris. The steward and one other servant waited on them, and all was done with that calmness and noiselessness peculiar to well appointed houses. As a return for his hospitable entertainment Herbert considered himself bound to talk with the old intendant, and began by saying:

"I suppose this is the usual dining-room of the family ?"

"It is the room for family repasts," the old man replied with a smile.

"Are there many members of this old family still alive?" Herbert pursued his inquiries.





"Whose guests are we then?" Bertie asked



in surprise.



"Those of the present owner as represented by his most obedient servant," the old man replied.

"And to what family are we indebted then ?"

The steward did not appear to hear this question, for at this moment he took up a silver rechaud from the table and handed it to the servant. Bertie was playing thoughtfully with his silver dessert knife: suddenly his eye fell on the handle, and he started on seeing a Count's coronet and the letter P engraved on it. "Ah!" he thought, "the coincidence would be too strange; besides, how many country families have names beginning with a P?"

Adjoining this room, are the apartments of our young mistress," the old man went on; *if your honours take any interest in the sub





ject, I would ask you to follow me to the adjoining boudoir where her portrait is hangingup."

I need hardly say that Bertie sprang from his chair in extreme excitement, and that Herbert also followed the old man, who now drew back the heavy damask curtains, and showed the way into the boudoir. Bertie's first exclamation was-"It is she!" In fact, the Marchesa was before them, and the likeness was so striking that she might almost be expected to walk forward and salute the guests.

"Let us go away," Bertie at length said, after devouring the features with his eyes, "else it will unman me!"

"Well! I could stand for hours before it," Herbert said with a laugh; "but the experiment might prove dangerous to my heart. So back to our cigars."

Bertie cast one longing, lingering glance on the portrait: then he turned hurriedly away, and they retired to the adjoining room. But their conversation was disturbed: Bertie sat


gloomy and thoughtful his thoughts were evidently across the water in Venice. Herbert also sat silent, idly stretched in his fauteuil, and watching the rings of smoke as they ascended to the ceiling.

"It is a pity," he at length said, "but I fancy the sight of that picture has done neither of us any good."




"Indeed, no!" Bertie replied.



"When I



was this afternoon at San Giuliano, and stood among the workmen, who laughed at the balls that threw up the sand in their faces. I rejoiced at the thought of spending a couple of hours quietly with you. I felt at peace with myself, and could gaze on Venice without that feeling of despondency which generally assails me. Now my calmness is gone, my nerves are excited, and my heart beats terribly: I feel oppressed by the solitude here."

"If you want a row, old fellow, let us





go on to the balcony. Just open a window and you will soon hear your favourite music."





"Don't gibe at me, Herbert," the other said gently. "Indeed, I feel very melancholy and sad. If you do not mind, I will ride back to town at once."

"Of course, my dear boy, you can do as you like. If you wish to be alone I will stay here, if not, I will accompany you with the greatest pleasure."

"How can you ask such a question ? If you like to give up your bed for a few hours and ride in with me, I shall be delighted. But you understand my feelings I am excited and startled. Reminiscences and thoughts torture me afresh, and I would gladly dispel them.'





"Not a word further," said Herbert,-" let us ride."

They were soon mounted, and trotting towards Mestre. The favourite music to which Herbert had recently alluded, could be heard more distinctly than ever on this evening. On all sides it thundered and





lightened, and in the vicinity of the Lagune Bridge the flashes were most perceptible. All the Villas our friends passed seemed to be sending their population in the direction of Mestre.

"The rascals appear to be in earnest tonight," Herbert shouted to another orderly officer who came galloping down from the Casa Papadopoli. "Is his Excellency at home?"

"No, he is gone to the Lagune Bridge," was the reply; "they are up to the devil's own work to-night on their islands. They have probably heard that the three batteries at San Giuliano are nearly completed, and they are firing incessantly from San Secundo: our advanced posts have also noticed that they have collected a large number of boats."

"Then my work is in danger," Bertie said sharply. "At any rate I must go and look into matters a little."





They pressed their horses on and soon entered Mestre.

The market-place was crowded this evening groups of officers were collected round the café, and eagerly conversing; orderlies came and went; and the men returning from the trenches were eagerly surrounded and crossquestioned.

"Well, what's up over there?"

"Not much now. But they seem to intend something to-night."

"Have you suffered much loss?

"Trifling, but the fellows in San Giuliano have been cut up."

The two friends, after putting up their horses, hurried down to the earthwall on which the Lagune Bridge is built, and found there a number of General Officers assembled, who were peering out eagerly into the darkness. But it required a very practised eye to distinguish anything in the gloom, and that only when the scene was lit up by a cannon



C





shot. San Secundo and the bridge batteries were firing single shots at San Giuliano, and it was a peculiarly grand sight, when the gloomy water of the Lagune was lighted up for a second, or one of the gigantic bridge piers stood out clear and distinct from the awful gloom.

"I am not particularly afraid about San Secundo," one of the officers said sharply, "though I have it on good authority that they intend making an attack with their boats, though that won't help them much, for we are splendidly covered. Yet, it will cost many lives, and that is the worst of the business.'

"Had we not better send up some light rockets from San Giuliano ? another officer asked.

"No! we should only give them a better object to aim at. I am keeping a sharp lookout, and expect a report every moment.'





And, a few minutes later, an orderly came





hastily running up and pressed through the circle of officers.





'Well, how are matters out there? have they lost many?"



rr



"Not yet, Excellency," the officer replied, only one very serious accident. Captain Tollhausen of the artillery, in command of the upper battery, has been dangerously wounded."





Ah, that is bad! Colonel, we must send out some one else. Is there any Artillery Officer present ? "



Bertie stepped forth.



"Ah! my excellent Major Dymoke," the former speaker went on, "but you left the works hardly two hours ago ???

"I am delighted to return to them again.”

"I am very glad," a third officer took the word, "that you have come up, for you have managed the erection of the batteries from the first. Make haste out, my dear fellow,





and urge the men on as quick as you can. There cannot be much left to do."

Very good then!" the first speaker remarked; "in that case we shall send the enemy home with a flea in his ear."

Bertie hurried away down the earthwall and tried to discover the road to his most dangerous destination. But he had not gone far ere he heard some one stumbling behind him, and soon Herbert whispered to him not to go on so fast.





Well, what do you want?" Bertie asked



in surprise.





Why, to accompany you. It will be a jolly night of it, I fancy."

"Just be good enough to return. I am ready enough to go out, for it is my duty, but it would be madness in you to expose yourself to certain death, and you will only be in the way after all."

"Hang it all, Bertie," Herbert said with a





laugh, "I fancy something is going to happen in which I can be of service. They say the Italians are going to make an attack with their boats, and surely I can join in repulsing them. Come, old fellow, don't be so envious, let a poor devil enjoy a little of the glory. I am sick and tired of looking on thus idly, while so many brave men are being daily killed around me."

"You are a glorious fellow," Bertie said with a smile of sadness; "well, come along! but if any accident happen to you-which I hope not-I shall be blamed for it."

"You have no right to order me, I don't belong to your corps."

"Come along, hold your tongue, and look to your footing."

This last command was highly requisite : even now, in bright sunshine, it is a difficult task to walk from the railway embankment to the spot where a bridge was then built across to San Giuliano. At the time of which I write,





the ground was so intersected by trenches and full of holes turned up by the cannon balls, that it was really a desperate undertaking. The nearer the friends drew to the Island, the more they came within the range of the enemy's fire. At length they reached the spot where a narrow plank led across from the mainland to San Giuliano, and here Bertie stopped once more and tried to induce Herbert to turn back.

"So soon as we have taken a step on these boards, we are mercilessly exposed to the fire of the Bridge batteries and of San Secundo. I know where we are: this is the plank which our soldiers have christened the "BRIDGE OF DEATH.' You have been kind enough to accompany me so far, but now you had better turn back."

"Forwards!" Herbert said, "why stand here, as a mark for the enemy? the affair is settled, I go with you."

Bertie shook his head and hurried on the





boards quivered beneath their feet, but they paid no attention to it: on the contrary, their eyes were fixed on the ground, in order not to fall into the countless holes which the cannon balls had furrowed. The bridge merited its name on this night: and it was a miracle that the young men were not destroyed at every step. Probably, the Italians suspected that reinforcements would be thrown into the Island this evening, for they kept up a tremendous fire on the bridge. The cannon balls whistled past the young men's heads, and plashed into the water, or shook the bridge to its foundation, as they struck the supporting piers.

"S-s-st!" Herbert said, "that was uncommonly close to my whisker. It is a marvel that none of these invisible balls strike us.'





we



"Now, be quiet," Bertie warned him, have reached the Island. But I must make myself known to the guard, or we may run into danger on that side."





This was soon effected, and the two officers sprang ashore. They found everybody actively but noiselessly employed. Three batteries had been built in tiers, one above the other. The guns were being taken into the two lower ones, and the topmost was nearly completed. To the latter our friends proceeded, and Bertie assumed the command at once.

"It is an unpleasant night," the chief engineer said, walking up to them. "I must congratulate you, Major Dymoke, on having passed the bridge safely. It is a perfect miracle. I am always afraid they'll blow the plank away, and that would he a decided bore."

"Are any reinforcements expected from Mestre ?"

"Oh no! I fancy we have quite enough here already."

"And do you think they will dare any strong attack?”

"I am certain of it. They have drawn up several gunboats to the left of the Lagune,





The men in the battery were working with undiminished energy. Not a word, not a sound was to be heard; only the noise of the earth being shovelled away was perceptible, the creaking of a fascine as it was sunk in its place, or the hollow blow of the hammers as the palisades were driven in. Suddenly a gentle cry was heard among the workmen, which was soon drowned by the sound of tools clashing together.

"What's the matter there?" Bertie said, hurrying up.



cr



"A four-and-twenty pounder has just dashed through the men," a sergeant reported.



"Killed ?"



"Two!"

"Wounded?"

"Four!"



"Carry them to the rear at once. I will send a couple of surgeons."





This was one of the little melancholy interludes that unfortunately occurred too often. Still the brave soldiers did not pay much attention to it for a moment they started at seeing death so close to them, then they silently picked up their fallen comrades, carried them to the rear, and returned in hearty spirits to their dangerous work.

All the men engaged on the battery were in a state of peculiar excitement. The foreboding that the enemy intended something had spread among the troops, and each examined his arm most carefully, so that it might not play him false at the decisive moment.

Midnight had just passed, when the fire from the enemy's batteries suddenly ceased. Night reässumed her sway, and silence brooded over the broad expanse of water.

"That is a calm before the storm," the engineer whispered, and hurried to the lower batteries.

"I think so too," Bertie said to his friend;





"if I am not deceived, I can see dark bodies floating on the water. Look, there and





there."



"Yes, yes," Herbert replied, "they are creeping up, we are going to have a sea, fight."

At this moment two infantry officers emerged from the gloom, and the elder of them said:

"We can do nothing except keep quiet till they make an earnest attack: for before they attempt to set foot on the Island, they will give us a sharp fusilade. My men are all ready."

"I say, old fellow," Herbert whispered to Bertie, "I think I shall attach myself to the infantry. Perhaps, I shall find presently a superfluous musket."





He pressed Bertie's hand and disappeared in the gloom.

Bertie remained alone, leaning over the breastwork of the battery and gazing out on the darkness. There was deep peace on land





and water the air was serene, and had not heavy cloud masses flecked the sky, the stars would have allowed an extensive prospect. There lay Venice, the city could be recognized by an infinity of lights scattered over it. The people in this quarter of the city had been latterly on their guard: for since the capture of Malghera, the Austrians had erected mortar batteries on the Lagune Bridge, which sent their lading at times into the foremost houses.

The dark bodies on the water came nearer and nearer, and glistening points could be distinguished upon them. The fire of San Secundo had now entirely ceased, and thousands of eyes peered out into the darkness.

Suddenly, a brilliant light ball was sent up from the boats, illuminating the gloomy waters for an immense distance. A terrible fire was commenced, and shells and canister hizzed and whizzed from the gunboats against San Giuliano. At the same moment the batteries began their fire again with increased fury, and





actually discharged entire broadsides at the



Austrians.



In the first moment of surprise the workmen hid behind the breastwork, for the effect of the balls was tremendous. The strongest fascines were rent asunder like ropes of straw, and the ready-filled gabions flew in every direction. Yells of agony, isolated cries, or fearful

groans were heard all around.

Bertie had stood in amazement for a minute or so, watching the effect of the fire; but on noticing the confusion it produced, he leapt down into the battery, and sought to encourage the men into completing their task.

"Attention, men!" he commanded in a sharp hissing whisper," stand to your posts : four men here with a gabion: this embrasure has suffered the most."

And while the men obeyed his orders he stationed himself at the most dangerous spot and helped them to repair the damage.

"Don't give way," he continually repeated:





we must have the battery ready in a couple of hours. You down below with the beds,

get on. Only think of the pleasure, men, when we can by our three batteries repay them with interest all they have lent us to-night."

In the meanwhile, batteries and boats continue their withering fire, the latter hurling immense masses of canister on to the flat banks of the Island Now, too, the dark hulls of the gunboats could be seen, and near them large flat boats full of soldiers. As they knew that the batteries were not yet completed, the Patriots evidently designed to attack the Island and destroy the works. Doubtlessly, too, they anticipated but a small garrison on the Island, and the cautious old Major commanding the infantry had managed to keep up the deception, by only allowing a few scattered shots to be fired. Hence, the flat boats pulled up manfully enough to land their crews.





Bertie, whose attention was divided between building the battery and watching the enemy's manœuvres, sprang once more on the breastwork, and looked toward a rocket battery stationed no great distance off, and which now began firing. The Austrian artillerymen aimed with their usual coolness and precision; and from the crash and confusion produced in the boats and among the men already landed, it was quite plain that not a shot was thrown away. Like fiery serpents the rockets whizzed in the direction of the water, scattering death and destruction wherever they burst. And now too the infantry began moving, and rushed on the intruders with a loud hurrah!

At this moment both the boats and the rocket batteries checked their fire, through fear of hitting their own men, and a silent though terrible encounter commenced below. Bayonet fought against bayonet and strove to transfix the enemy: sabres crossed, and the axes and picks with which the fatigue parties





hurried up from the works, produced a terrible bloodshed. Only at times the flash of a musket or pistol lighted up the ghastly scene, and then it would be seen that the Venetians were flying to their boats. Many, however, were cut down ere they reached them, and many perished in the waves, into which they sprang to save their lives. The rocket battery, too, recommenced its fire, and sent destruction after the retiring barges. But the latter were soon sheltered behind the gunboats, and it was high time for the Austrians to conceal themselves as well as they could, for the canister recommenced from the vessels with double fury.

Herbert had done his manly devoir in the melée, and though slightly wounded by a bayonet-thrust in the arm, he hurried as quickly as possible to the upper battery, to tell Bertie all about the fight. Bertie and his weary men were working indefatigably, but the fire of the enemy's batteries caused them great mischief. Several officers had





been wounded, and Bertie alone superintended the completion of the battery. As his life was so valuable for his men, he had descended from the breastwork, and now stood on an embrasure superintending the workmen. The damage had been totally repaired and the beds were now nearly laid.

Herbert glided through the workmen and soon stood by Bertie's side.

"I shall be delighted when you have finished your work, for it is miserable standing here to be pelted at, without a chance of replying."

"As you realize that fact, my dear Herbert, get out of this as quick as you can, for I assure you it is not safe here. You had plenty of fun, I presume, down there, and you need not make yourself a target here."

"Preach away, old fellow," Herbert said with a laugh. "Well, I fancy we are in luck to-day, for you must have heard plenty of music up here and are going to hear more,"





he whispered, for at. the moment he spoke,

several heavy balls crashed into the battery,



hurling wood and earth about, and levelling

many a brave

young fellow.





'



'Well! I will obey you," Herbert said: "I will return to my infantry; but so soon as you begin firing, I'll give you three British cheers."

Bertie, who was standing in the shadow of the embrasure, made no reply.



'



'Good-bye for the present, then," Herbert added; "give us your hand, old fellow, and I'll be off."

But Bertie did not offer his hand, and when Herbert, rather startled by his silence, put out his own and plucked him by the sleeve, Bertie slided slowly along the face of the parapet, sank on his knees, and then fell on his face.

"Gracious God!" Herbert shouted as he

leapt from the trench. "A couple of men here," he cried to the workmen," your officer is shot."



J





It was only one victim more; and though his comrades gazed pitifully on their comrade when he was carried from the works, the moment was too important to allow any railing at fortune. The surgeon who examined the fallen man declared his right arm was smashed, and the wound would be mortal, as the breast-bone was crushed in.

Herbert asked for a couple of men and a litter, and walked back to Mestre over the Bridge of Death in deep emotion. When they reached the town, and marched silently through the desolate streets, the batteries on San Giuliano were finished, and when Herbert delivered his still breathing friend over to the hospital, no one in the batteries was thinking of the man who had so recently fallen there, for the great moment had arrived, the guns were run out, and a murderous fire had commenced with daybreak,

In a short time a couple of gunboats were





sunk, others seriously injured, a battery on the Lagune bridge almost totally dismounted, and the Venetians perceived with terror that the besiegers had drawn much closer to them.





CHAPTER XII.



THE FLIGHT FROM VENICE.



THE tremendous cannonading which had been exchanged for so lengthened a period between the bridge batteries and San Giuliano had furnished a most agreeable and grand spectacle to the Venetians, who looked on in perfect safety. Rarely did a cannon-ball cross the Lagune, or at the most a few only reached the railway station. And, although now and then a bomb might fly in suspicious proximity, it generally burst in the air, as the fusees could not be regulated for so enormous a distance.





All this, connected with the fact that after the repulse of the night sally the Austrians remained perfectly quiet, rendered the easygoing population quite secure. They had an unbounded belief in the impregnability of old Venetia, and went to work in good spirits on the repairs of their principal battery of San Antonio, in the centre of the Lagune bridge. As they were now cured of any apprehensions about a real bombardment, they directed all their energies to repulse a direct attack which could only be made by the railway bridge, and therefore blew up more and more arches to concentrate their strength in San Antonio.



.



In the city itself, however, two other enemies began to make their appearance, whom no preparations could hold in check; these were hunger and pestilence; and in consequence of their apparition, many terrible scenes took place in the streets. Crowds of beggars assembled on the public places, and when they assailed the better-dressed passers by, their





prayer sounded more like a claim they would enforce. More melancholy still was the congregation of respectable persons round the bakers' and provision shops. One writer on the subject gives the following horrible details:

"Usually, the provision did not suffice for all, and the last were obliged to go empty away. How many waited for hours before the appointed time for opening, in order to be first! It was heart-breaking to see how the poor women, on whose every feature hunger and misery could be traced, pressed together to procure daily bread in exchange for the half pence they had raised by begging. Seve ral times a fight took place, and it is a fact that more than one person was pressed to death in this battle for food. Eventually, gendarmes were placed at these spots, who secured a cer tain degree of order and prevented accidents, though not able to alleviate the want, and the intensely painful effect it produced."

Yet, in spite of the growing want and





misery, St Mark's, as before, presented a gay and animated scene at all hours of the day. Here the more respectable classes assembled, in order to hear the details of all that took place, and debate on it; to make demands on Government; in short, to do everything which could harass and impede those who had the supreme management of affairs. Military of all arms and ranks lounged about and afforded the gaping populace a pleasing variety with their gay uniforms, red trowsers, and heteroge neous equipment.

Before long, however, these scenes began to assume a degree of restlessness; distrust in the Government, formerly only instigated by individuals, had ended by infecting the majority. In addition, diseases of every description became daily more contagious and virulent, and even the better class of citizens felt a perceptible want of food. Meat and fish were almost utterly wanting, and the inhabitants were nearly restricted to polenta and vegetables.





Probably, these circumstances induced many of the clearer sighted to confess to them-selves that the beginning of the end was close at hand, and that submission was the only chance of escape. But for a long time no one ventured to breathe the word "capitulation,' even to his dearest friend; and the fear of being branded as a traitor and handed over to Judge Lynch, kept every tongue quiet.





At length, however, the Archbishop and Cardinal Patriarch of Venice ventured on a decided course of action; he secretly summoned a number of the moderate party, and at a meeting held in the Palazzo of the Marchese Poppoli, it was agreed that they should request the Government to pave the way to negotiations, and thus put an end to the intolerable sufferings of the people. Unfortunately the document signed by those gentlemen fell by some means into the hands of the populace, and that "treason" which had been so often





employed as a ghost to scare the Venetians had become an actuality.

The news spread like wild-fire through the streets and canals of the city, and St Mark's became once again the scene of a frightful tumult. Even the universally respected President was at first impotent to appease the



popu



lar fury. Morte al Patriarca! was heard echoing over the square, and an excited mob, joined by a large band of soldiers, stormed the Archiepiscopal Palace. Furniture, books, pictures, valuables of every description, were hurled into the canal; and when the greatest possible amount of injury had been inflicted here, the gradually increasing mob proceeded to the palaces of the other nobles, who had compromised themselves by signing the docu ment. The man in the red cap, whose acquaintance we have already formed, now urged the mob to attack the Palazzo Poppoli.

"The Marchese stands at the head of the list," he yelled. "Remember Malghera





and the provisioning committee. Think of Madammiala sua figlia, who insulted us with her black and yellow flag. Away to the palace of the Marchese."

The savage mob started off in obedience to this cry; one part filled a number of boats. ready prepared, while the other hurried through the narrow streets to the palace, and soon occupied all the approaches in front and rear.

Although the Government had been unable to prevent the storming of the Archiepiscopal palace, it had already taken all precautions to stop further outrage; thus, when the leaders of the mob arrived at the Poppoli Palazzo, they found it occupied by a division of gendarmes, who, despite the attempted fraternization, evinced great readiness to respond with a volley. They could not, of course, prevent the palace being stoned from the canal side, and soon all the windows along the magnificent frontage were broken. Shots were also heard whistling through the air, which carried off some of the





carved stone-work, or tore through some of the heavy silken curtains.

The Marchese had retreated with his daughter to that apartment where the first conspiracy had been formed, the only spot where he was safe from bullets and stones, hurled at him by that mob for whose welfare he had overthrown the Imperial Government, and which were now ready to tear him limb from limb.

He was standing at a small narrow window, through which he could observe a portion of the raging band, though himself invisible. Emilia had thrown her arm round his neck and pillowed her head on his chest: but now and then, when the mob grew intensely furious, a flush of satisfaction might be seen to cross her features, as she raised her head haughtily. Perhaps she was not sorry matters had reached such a pitch.

The Marchese was violently crumpling a paper in the hand which he often raised menacingly to the window. More frequently though





he bent his head down to his daughter, kissed her on the forehead, and whispered:





My poor, poor child, now I feel how much

you have endured by remaining here with me."

But then he would draw himself

up proudly while looking out on the street, and bite his lips as he muttered:





And yet I was blinded enough to wish to be buried with these people beneath the ruins of the city, to be the last who could wave the tricolor-that would have been a glorious ending. But now my firm will is broken, my strength is bowed. Those fellows outside for whom I suffered so much have themselves rooted out of my heart my love for them and their cause. May they fare as they deserve!"



ઃઃ



My father!" the young Marchesa whispered, soothingly, forget these ungrateful



men.



tr



Think of yourself and reflect what

must now be done."



"This paper," the Marchese, continued as





he raised his hand again, "was given me from the President by a captain of the gendarmes. It contains," he said with a bitter laugh, "many flattering acquiescences with our document but he begs me as a friend, and orders me as Head of the Government, to quit the city for my own security:-what shall I do?"





:



Obey him!" the girl replied, energetically. Obey him unconditionally. He never issued a better order."

"So be it, then!" the Marchese said after a lengthened pause. "I will quit Venice this very night."

"You mean, I presume, my father, that we will quit Venice.'





Certainly, my child: but we cannot go together. I have excellent reasons for it. I will try to reach Burano through Porte di Lido, and gain the main land among the island group at Toratto. You know," he added with a bitter smile, "I am exiled, placed under the ban, both here and there, and I





"You had better proceed to Fusina, with your waiting woman and a few trustworthy servants. There you will easily get a carriage to conduct you to our villa at Mestre, where you may expect to hear from me."

A slight blush suffused the daughter's face still she clung more closely for a moment round her father's neck.

"I will obey your orders."

The Marchese silently pressed his child to his heart, gently removed her hands from his neck, and kissed her forehead. When she looked up in his face, she saw a couple of tears glistening in his eyes, which he wiped away with his hand, and laid it as if blessing her on her head.

Yes, my child, may Heaven grant us





happy days after this period of gloom! I only wish it for you, Emilia, and if I am destined to live to enjoy such happiness, my every care will be to requite you all your childish obedience and devoted love."

Then he turned and left the room.

After the mob had shouted and yelled for some time longer, seeing that too good measures had been taken for the defence of the Palazzo, they gradually retired to attack other houses. On the same day a diabolical act took place elsewhere, so characteristic of Italians that I must find room for it.

Stephen Agostino, a poor mason, and one of his comrades, had asked General Ulloa for permission to go and fire the furnaces held by the Austrians under the railway bridge. They advanced with great prudence to perform this generous enterprize, but they found the enemy on the alert. The next day Agostino attempted it alone, with the permission of Lieutenant Colonel Cosenz, commanding the battery.





His boat was unfortunately upset, and he swam towards his destination: but the Austrians perceived and fired upon him. Agostino struggled in vain against the current, and at length, exhausted by fatigue, he made signals of distress. The officer directing the works in front of the Piazzale Battery picked him up and led him to General Ulloa, stating that having seen him approaching the Austrians he had pursued him and captured him under the enemy's fire. The unfortunate Agostino, exhausted by fatigue and stunned by this frightful accusation, could scarcely deny it by signs.

Upon the officer's declaration, Agostino was put in a boat, handed over to the gendarmes, and left for punishment to the committee of surveillance. On the passage, having recovered his senses, he stated that he had received permission from the officer in spectacles (this was Cosenz) to go and fire the enemy's works: but the news of fresh treason had spread, and





the boat, on reaching Canareggio, was surrounded by a mob, which was more infuriated by the sight of the man supposed to be a spy. Agostino was torn from the police and massacred. When Cosenz arrived to prove his innocence, it was too late.

It is true that the Government took charge of the poor fellow's family, and put up a monument to his memory; but such anecdotes go far to show what Italy would become were the popular dream of constitutionalism. to be carried out to its full effect.



:



The Marchese made his preparations for departure he chose for himself a small gondola with one attendant, but his daughter, who had a much further distance to go, selected a half-decked barque with four experienced oarsmen, while old Antonio took the helm.

At the period of the Marchesa's departure, the Lagunes were strangely quiet, for the Austrians had left off firing to a considerable





extent, and the Venetians were glad to follow their example. The people in their carelessness, led astray too by false reports, yielded to the hope that the Great Powers had taken up their cause, and that consequently the siege would soon be ended.

Venice enjoyed an unusual degree of peace and serenity; and in the afternoon a large crowd proceeded to the Giardino. Publico to enjoy an entirely novel spectacle. This consisted in the much-discussed balloons, which the besiegers sent up from their vessels, and were intended to drop a bombshell into the city as they floated across it. But this inven tion, of considerable value I grant, was not sufficiently tried to produce a favourable result. The shells rarely struck the city, but burst in the air and fell with a hissing sound in the Lagunes.

As I said before, the Venetians found a fresh source of amusement in this, and return

ed from the public garden with renewed con





fidence in the impregnability of their Island City, crowded St Mark's and the play houses. more than ever, and went home quietly at night.

On one of these evenings a gondola with a large vessel lay at the rear of the Poppoli Palace. A man wrapped in a dark cloak entered the former and proceeded along the Canal di San Marco. The other vessel was freighted with several heavy chests, the four oarsmen took their seats, and old Antonio went to the tiller, after leading the Marchesa and her attendant into the boat.

"Now forwards!" the gondolier commanded in a whisper, and the barque turned slowly, glided into the Grand Canal, and moved sluggishly onwards.

It was a dark, rainy night; every one was at home; no gondolas met the barque; Venice lay in a deep sleep. All at once a hollow sound was heard from San Giuliano. Like distant thunder it rolled over the Lagunes, so that





the four boatmen started up in alarm, and began pulling more energetically.

Cospetto!" the old gondolier said, "they are beginning again. That will be a pretty row. However, it's all the better for us, as we run less chance of being stopped.-But what's that?





A strange humming was perceptible in the air, and a heavy cannon-ball plashed into the Canal behind them, and sent up a shower of spray. Then the noise was heard again, all around, and the party noticed beams cracking, and houses falling in. Then the bridge batteries commenced replying with interest-how the Italian artillerymen out at San Antonio and San Secondo laughed at the fancied clumsiness of the Austrians. All the shells and balls flew high over their heads-but Venice was lost.

Trembling, the four boatmen sat on their benches, and it required many an oath from Antonio ere they could be induced to go on.





Every minute one of them would let his oar fall, cross himself, and say, "The Madonna be merciful to us!"

"What can be the meaning of all this?" the Marchesa asked the steerer.

The Virgin alone knows!" he replied; "the balls fly over our heads; they must almost reach St Mark's and the Arsenal. Ah! it is a fearful night!"

"What was that just passed over our heads? -I fancied I noticed a pale glow in the air." se A shell makes a greater noise," the gondolier remarked as he looked up. "Oh Madonna! it is a red-hot ball! See, Signora, where it struck, the house is on fire."

And this was not the only fire that broke out that evening in the hapless city. Houses and streets grew animated as if by magic. Women and children wrung their hands as they quitted the houses whose roofs had been crashed in above them. Nowhere seemed there to be any shelter or safety. The multi





tude sought refuge under the porticos of the churches, or in the Giardino Publico. But several cannon-balls even reached these spots, and the terrified inhabitants were driven elsewhere.

The Marchesa's boat, in the meanwhile, proceeded along the Canal di la Giudecca, where it was in some degree protected, till it reached the open Lagune at the end of the battery San Marte. Here, however, it was within range of the enemy's batteries, and shells and bullets hurtled incessantly around it. At this spot a fearfully beautiful sight was visible. The Lagune bridge, veiled in darkness, was every now and then illuminated with the brightness of day, by the flashing of the guns: plashing shells, red-hot balls and grenades whizzed through the air, emitting showers of sparks. The thunder of the guns was deafening, and at moments the smoke veiled the bridge and forts like a dense white mist.





The four boatmen had already given many signs of extreme dissatisfaction, and the old gondolier had great difficulty in inducing them. to go on. And yet they were obliged to pull with all their strength, for a smart night breeze was blowing them toward the main land in a northerly course. Hitherto not one. of the bullets had done the boat any injury, and, indeed, none had come in any proximity, till all at once a heavy shell, emitting myriads of scintillations, shot forth from the right shore so close to the oarsmen, who fell back in terror, that at first it might be fancied they were struck. It was not so, however; the shell hissed in the water just behind them, but the boat no longer answered the helm, and when Antonio sprang up to detect the cause, he found that all four oarsmen had leaped into the Lagune with their oars, and were striking out for the adjoining shore.

It was a fearful moment, and for a second even the brave old man began to despond.





The south wind drove the boat about at its

will, and it was gradually drifting toward the Lagune bridge and the batteries. But a short time and it must strike one of the piers and perhaps be upset, if not struck by one of the enemy's cannon-balls. To the right lay the battery San Antonio, and whenever a flash lit up the works, the dark forms could be clearly traced as they stood to their guns.

The young Marchesa alone retained perfect presence of mind. She was standing up in the boat looking dauntlessly at the wonderful scene before her. She thought that her cousin Count Dalti was commanding on the bridge, and by a natural sequence the thought reminded her of all that had occurred in the last year, which had produced so much suffering and misfortune,—torn an ancient family asunder, and compelled the young man up there to take up arms against the Kaiser to whom he had sworn fidelity.

At this moment, however, the Marchesa was





accusing her cousin unjustly, for while she glided past the bridge in her tottering bark, four men were bearing him back to the city. A bullet had put an end to his career, and under existing circumstances it was probably fortunate for him that he found such a death.

Antonio had, in the meantime, proceeded to the bow of the boat, seized two oars lying there, and ordered his young mistress to take the helm. The Marchesa, who in happier times had often steered her little boat, obeyed his decisions boldly, quickly, and punctually, and then the old gondolier succeeded by almost superhuman exertions in pulling the heavy barque out into the Lagune. It was, however, high time, for they had already drifted past several demolished piers of the bridge, and had run so close to shore that they could clearly distinguish the Austrians repairing their defences. Once or twice they had been challenged, and as they naturally made no answer a couple of musket balls





had been sent after them, which, however, did no mischief.

At last they managed to place a considerable distance between themselves and the dangerous bridge, and by day-break the Marchesa had the satisfaction of landing at Fusina.

But it is high time for us to return to Bertie, and see whether he was lying in that quiet little spot which he had indicated to Herbert would be his last resting-place. My readers may take heart, he is fated to emerge in safety, though I confess he had a very narrow escape.





CHAPTER XIII.



HERCULES AND OMPHALE.



A FEW days after the events I have attempted to describe, for my pen is impotent to deal with all the horrors of the famous siege, the population of Venice accepted the notoriously mild conditions offered them by Field Marshal Radetzky. So long as the Venetians felt themselves safe in their Lagunes, so long as the warriors returning from their batteries fancied their homes afforded them a protection, and so long as the bullets did not penetrate into the city, physically as well as morally





dispiriting the people--despite hunger and pestilence, an exalted party of patriots still existed who would not hear a word about capitulation, but pledged themselves to perish amid the ruins of the city, sooner than see the detested black and yellow banner again fluttering above their heads.

Thus the end of July approached, and with it the terrible catastrophe, when the Austrian artillery officers erected two heavy batteries on San Giuliano, in which the 24-pounders and Paixhans were so elevated that they carried red-hot balls and grenades for a distance of more than 3000 paces.

Then the Venetians began, all at once, to lose their belief in the impregnability of their city. The red-hot bullets fell almost vertically into the most populous districts, destroyed the roofs, filled the narrow streets with stones and ashes, set fire to several buildings, and ended by terrifying the whole population. When at last the party most averse from surrender began





to alter its tone, the number of those willing to capitulate increased with every hour, every minute, every second.

If formerly the populace greeted those as "traditori" who dared to utter a word about surrender, now it was regarded as the height of treason if a man refused to precipitate the negotiations. And thus at length arrived the memorable 31st of August, when the Austrian army-after occupying all the islands and forts -marched into conquered Venetia with old Radetzky at its head. The well-known colours were greeted with shouts of delight by a large portion of the population; thousands who, in March 1848, had foolishly shouted and yelled against Austria now honestly rejoiced at the sight of the victorious eagle, and in perfect conviction promised eternal fidelity to the merciful ruler.

History is silent as to the losses the Austrian army suffered during the siege, but the burying-places round Mestre told a very strik





ing tale. The brave fellows had to contend not only against the insurgents and their missiles, but also against the terrain and the climate. At the outset the water and mud had severely tried the patience of the besiegers; but in June the piercing sun and red-hot sand on the shore increased the difficulties of the labour and the list of sick. Small was the number of soldiers killed and wounded in comparison with those who succumbed to the dangerous marsh fevers, or, at least, had the melancholy prospect of suffering from the consequences of this malady through life.

When Venice was once taken, Mestre reässumed its old aspect with marked rapidity; the inhabitants returned en masse; the battery at the mouth of the canal disappeared; the water was once more covered by boats and gondolas, and the summit of the Guelph Tower, from which the officers had so long surveyed Malghera, was now utterly deserted.

But though the little town no longer resem





bled an encampment, and the soldiers' great coat and forage cap were rarely seen in the streets, a large number of patients had been left in the villas round Mestre, slowly recovering under better attention and the quietude. All, however, did not meet with this good fortune, and the little burying-ground near the Lagune displayed many a recentlyformed mound.

As soon as Herbert had handed Bertie over to the doctor, and inquired whether there was any chance of his recovery, the latter merely shrugged his shoulders and said as he humected a pinch of snuff:

"We must not form any delusion on the subject. In the first place, the right arm is irretrievably lost, and, secondly, the chest is very dangerously injured. And you see yourself how crowded the hospital is with patients. There is very little hope for your friend, and only the most extreme care and quiet could render it possible for his powerful constitution





to pull him through. But, as I said before, we are too crowded here."

These words gave Herbert a slight glimmer of hope, and his decision was immediately taken. He most readily obtained leave to have Bertie transported to his own quarters at the Villa, which was done with the utmost gentleness and care. The old steward received the wounded man in the kindest manner: he sent for a skilful physician from Verona, who was obliged to live in the house while Herbert, not content with this, tried to find his old friend Jones, who he heard had lately come down to camp from Brescia, where he had been quartered. He soon found him, and begged his assistance in the apparently hopeless task of restoring Bertie to life.

The two old friends were delighted at meeting, although it was tinged with a degree of melancholy at the sad state in which Bertie was lying. He was utterly unconscious, and remained so for weeks. But Jones never gave





up hope, and as he had had enormous practice in patching up wounds, Herbert placed confidence in his assertion that he would drag Bertie through.

To tell the truth, the Italian doctor was not sorry to have so skilful an ally, and when the first lucid interval arrived, the amputation was performed. At length, too, the chest began to show signs of amelioration, and the patient was doing as well as could be expected.

Much of his recovery was undoubtedly owing to the jealous care with which the old steward kept the strictest silence in the house. Though generally so good-tempered and affable, now he would go into a perfect fit of fury if any one spoke too loudly in the passages, or if a door was banged. He would even have annihilated the innocent birds in the trees, had he not been frightened by the noise the gun would make, or if he had but an air-gun.





I need not to say that a higher authority was now presiding in the Casino, and would have compelled the steward to such measures, had he not been willing to take them from his own natural goodness of heart.

On hearing that the Marchesa had arrived, Herbert with a natural delicacy gave up his quarters at the Villa, and went down to the town, where he and Jones resided together. He called every day, of course, to inquire after Bertie, but as the lady expressed no desire to see him, he did not intrude upon her.

His time would have hung heavily on his hands had it not been for his new ally, who had ever some funny story to tell him. There was a good deal of the old leaven at work in Jones still, but he had learned the wholesome rule that "there is a time to work and a time to play." In consequence, he punctually attended to his military duties, and deservedly stood high in the opinion of the authorities. He had already been appointed Staff Surgeon





of the first class, and expected that the termination of the Italian campaign would give him a Deputy Inspectorship.

We can imagine what palavers he and Herbert held about old college days and the Burschen, and the conversation very naturally turned to a cognate subject one afternoon.

"By Jove, Jones," said Herbert, "I have been strangely ungrateful to the gentleman to whom I am indebted for the pleasure of your acquaintance."

Who on earth do you mean?

"Why, Gambrinus, of course."





Jones' eyes sparkled with unwonted animation as he replied:

"Ah, poor old fellow ! do you know, Herbert, I really think the only bad deed I ever did in my life was when I parted with that faithful friend of my fortunes ?"





"What on earth induced you to do that? "Well! I'll tell you. When the governor turned me up because I would n't marry that'





withered piece of femininity he had picked out for me, Miss McGilliam, the rich East India Director's daughter, I found myself reduced awfully. I tried it on for some time on the virtuous starvation dodge. I got up a class to coach Medicos in the Pharmacopoeia, and soon procured an enormous quantity of pupils, but as I had a natural delicacy about asking them 'to pay in advance, I did not get my money of one out of twenty. So that did n't "Then I tried giving lessons in German, but, Lord bless you, the refugees took the wind out of my sails; when a real German master could be got for sixpence an hour, of course I could n't compete with him, and although I believe my lessons were worth halfa-crown as compared to his, I could n't make people see it."



"Excuse my interrupting you," Herbert said, "but did you ever speculate on the reason why all foreigners give lessons in their own tongue ? "





"No-why?"



"To learn English for nothing."

"Ah!" Jones said philosophically,



"but



I never regarded it in that light. I thought it was to get tobacco. But, no matter-well, to continue my story. As my funds got lower, the higher rose my score with a confiding publican, who had known me in happier times, and I went on swigging, as it was all stuck up. However, the mauvais quart d'heure at length arrived, the host had to pay his brewer, and could I make it convenient, and so on? Of course I could n't-and to make a long story short, Tomkins wiped me off the slate in exchange for poor old Gamby."

"Knowing your thirst, I should fancy he had much the worst of the bargain."

"Had he, though? he made a fortune out of the poor brute. He was a man of a speculative turn of mind, and was always concocting new schemes to draw the public. He had gone through all the dodges; he first





introduced the giant with the weak legs: then he took to the dwarf line, and offered fabulous sums for Tom Thumb, whom not procuring he put up with the infant Napoleon; when the latter defied gin, and grew up into a stunted boy, Tomkins went into the bloomer line: when that no longer paid, he had a live Bosjesman, who got drunk and insisted on kissing Mrs T. Last of all came Gamby." "Oh! what a falling off was there!"

"I beg your pardon on the contrary, the Tomkins shares rose in the market considerably, and they do say that Prince Albert came disguised as a private in the Guards to see the wonderful hadibal.'



*



"Why! what was there to see in a poodle?





Sir! the poodle drained his half-and-half like a Christian. He had a special kennel in the private bar, and an unlimited supply of halfand-half, which I do him the credit to say he drank all day long. But it was his death!" Jones added pathetically.





"What did he drink himself into del.



trem. ?"



"Oh dear no! that dawg had no disgraceful tendencies-he never made a beast of himself. But it was thus: the landlord, finding what enormous profits he made, naturally wanted to make more, and he overdosed his stout with cocculus indicus. Human stomachs might stand it, but a dog's could n't, and one fine morning Gamby was found stretched out at full length. The landlord was in despair, but as the next best thing he had him stuffed, and you may now see him occupying the post of honour in the back parlour of the Tourniquet Arms, not a hundred miles, as the papers elegantly say, from Gower Street."

Herbert pumped up a sympathetic sigh for the old comrade of the bierkneipe, and Jones, overcome with his reminiscences, mounted his horse, and rode off to the Casino Poppoli, to pay his daily visit to his patient.

Bertie was still suffering from the fever his





wounds had brought on, and often indulged in the wildest phantasies. For a long time he did not shift his ground from the assault on the batteries of San Giuliano. He was constantly bidding his men be staunch, and then they would take their revenge on their foe. When the fever gradually subsided, and the blood no longer coursed with such impetuosity through his veins, he began continually repeating -"Herbert, come and visit me when I lie in that dewy grave-yard. Mind and cover my mound with forget-me-nots. I never shall forget her." Then he would smile in his sleep, and from his half-broken interjections so much might be gleaned that he fancied himself again in the Poppoli Villa, and standing before the portrait of the Marchesa, as on that evening after the dinner. He seemed to be lost in studying the portrait.

"Oh! what a wonderful likeness," he would say. "Oh! how fair and lovely. And yet the painter has not been able to do her justice





he may have rendered her exquisite features, but where is her noble heart, her touching kindness to the poor soldier of fortune!"

And so he would run on, mixing up the past and the present in the wildest imagery till he fell off into a deep, healthy sleep. Then the physician from Verona would say:

"He will not wake again in a hurry."

And a lovely, graceful woman would glide up to the sick man's bed, bend down gently and noiselessly over him, as if to see whether he were still breathing, or lay her rosy fingers caressingly on the young officer's hand.

At length, the blessed moment arrived when Bertie was enabled to recognise those around him. Recovery from a long and painful illness is always sweet, but doubly so to the man for whom fortune and love have reserved their choicest gifts. Poor Jones tried in vain for a long time to talk sensibly with the patient, who overpowered him with questions about the Marchesa, the army, his friend Herbert,





and other frivolous matters. At length, however, he was obliged to yield, and confess Bertie strong enough to stand a hearty buffet from fortune. In the first place, he handed him a letter from Head Quarters, which announced his promotion to a Lieut.-Colonelcy, as well as the Knighthood of the Iron Crown, which the Emperor had invested him with, in recognition of his eminent services at San Giuliano. But all these honours were as nothing compared with the moment when, on one fine September morning, reclining in a fauteuil at the opened window, he was permitted to receive a visitor, for whom he had been prepared, but whose arrival he awaited with mingled feelings of joy and timidity.

Drop the curtain over the glorious scene! why should I attempt to describe an interview which would only prove uninteresting to my readers, but which Bertie declared was to him a foretaste of Paradise! All I need say is





that this meeting was the signal for Bertie's ra

pid and perfect recovery.

About this time the old steward took off the distringas as to noise, and allowed the people on the estate to make up for their enforced silence by spending a couple of hours in offering the heartiest congratulations and shouting the most tremendous evvivas that Italian lungs are capable of. They took advantage of the opportunity, and park and villa were thronged by a merry, jesting crowd, who had apparently quite forgotten all the horrors of the recent siege. Their young mistress was among them again, and that was sufficient



cause for joy.



Their



But the shouts and gesticulations were as nothing compared with those that were raised a fortnight later, when the Marchese Poppoli, whom the Emperor had nobly amnestied, arrived at the villa, and gave his hearty consent to the wedding. He did more though: admiring





his son-in-law for the ardour with which he

had fought on behalf of the good cause, he settled £1000 a year upon him, and said, with tears of joy in his eyes:





My son we both did our duty, as we fancied. You have gained honours only justly your due, while I have learned by bitter experience the folly of the cry Italia liberata. The Emperor has rewarded you nobly, but I cannot be behindhand-accept this slight tribute of my gratitude, and though you now leave the Emperor's service for ever I hope will still remain his faithful servant, as I you trust to prove myself in the few years still allotted to me. Coals of fire have been heaped on my head, and my punishment will consist in ever keeping them alow. May my right hand rot off if ever I raise it again against our anointed Emperor."

There was nothing, from this moment, to prevent the wedding, which took place under the happiest auspices. Still Herbert, who





acted as best-man, as he had once promised, could not refrain from giving Bertie a moral lecture.

"What a strange fellow you are, old boy. You lose one hand, in order to gain two that are far more lovely. You go and get yourself half killed to rise again to a new and blessed life. Oh! you jolly egotist!"

The Marchesa had entirely recovered from the suffering she had endured in Venice, and looked lovelier than ever. During the wedding ceremony, which took place in the little chapel of the villa, she turned somewhat pale. Tears, too, stood in her eyes, but tears of joy and delight, when her husband offered her the left hand instead of the right, and whispered, "No matter, angel, it is nearer the heart."

From this moment matters went on in the usual groove, and after a happy wedding breakfast the young couple entered the travelling carriage which was to convey them to Nice, where Bertie intended to winter for the benefit





of his health. As for Herbert and his friend Jones, they paced in most melancholy fashion across the park as they returned to their quarters. Before long, Jones perpetrated a gentle whistle, and said in a solemn voice:

"Saville Row calls me for its own. I shall return to England at once, and set up my domestic gods in that neighbourhood suggestive of doctors. I shall send in my resignation, and if they won't give me a pension I cannot help it. Fortunately," he added, after a lengthened pause, "Aurora has money enough to enable me to start a brougham."

"Halloh! old boy!" Herbert said, following the trail with the instinct of a sleuth hound, "who's Aurora ?





"I've been talking in my sleep, I suppose, you scoundrel, or else her name would never have passed my lips. Well! I suppose I must make a clean breast of it. Aurora, then, Aurora-is n't it a pretty name, old fellow? well, Aurora, to tell you the truth, she's not





exactly noble, and you know all our fellows go in for that-and, of course, if I marry her I shall leave the Staff -"

Come, come! no beating about the bush -have it out, old boy, don't be sly with it."

"Well! you see, Aurora-but, of course, it don't go any further she is the daughter of a purveyor."

"A purveyor! well, he is a commissioned officer-you have no cause for alarm -"

"I wish you would n't take a fellow up so quickly-a purveyor, I was going to say, of dead stock."

What! sets the wind in that quarter ? in the vernacular, you mean that papa is a butcher ?"

"Well, to speak the truth, he is; but then, it's in a very large way. Lord bless you! he takes all the army contracts, and he's worth



an enormous sum.





Where does your dawn hang out? not

with the slaughtered beeves, I hope.

sign-board she would make!"



What a





"(Strong word) it, Herbert, I wish you would n't make fun of a fellow's finest feelings. I know it's no use calling you out, for you won't come, but if you go on in your present style, hang me but I'll punch your head."



"Jones, Jones! you're incorrigible how much chaff have I endured from you meekly; and now, because I make a pregnant allusion to your young lady's paternity, you flare up like his own fat would do."



"There you go again."



"But I say, Jones, you really are not casting sheep's eyes at a butcher's daughter? what sort of heart are you going in for-bullock or sheep? under which king, Bezonian? speak or die!"

And Jones walked sulkily away.

It was very true, though: during Jones' re

sidence in Brescia he had become enamoured of a butcher's daughter: perhaps, the example afforded him by Haynau, the butcher of Brescia, ennobled the profession: at any rate, Jones





had indulged in sentimentalism and was a gone 'coon, as the chaste Americanism runs. All he wanted was to secure his D. I. H., and then he would leave the service with an honest pension. Good old boy! he was not disappointedalmost the first G. O. after the return of tranquillity announced his promotion, and he sent in his resignation. It was graciously accepted, and he had just enough to keep him for life. His pension sounded very grand in florins, but was no great thing, financially speaking, but he knew that with his foreign titles and orders he could play a safe game in England. If the worst came to the worst, he could make a six months' tour annually to some wateringplace, where his brochette of orders would insure him consideration, and he could swell it in London as a great doctor for the other six.

Besides, he had one safety-valve never yet known to fail: in whatever German wateringplace he intended to patronise he could get up a subscription for an English church, and his





fortune would be made. JEREMIAH JONES JONES, M. D., D. I. H., Chevalier of the Maria Theresa Order, the good merit medal, the Zähringer Lion of the 19th class, &c. Chevalier of the Legion of Honour-all that appended to an advertisement in the Times must have a stunning effect.

And Jones was not far out: so long as arrant quackery goes down in this wonderful metropolis: so long as dyspeptic dowagers run after every new cure from hydropathy to brandyand-water, the biggest puffer will gain the day. It is of no use attempting to go through life honestly: humbug must win the day, from Professor Gambooge down to the gigantic Gullaway-vulgus vult decipi, and in Satan's name decipiatur !

Of course, Jones made up his quarrel with Herbert, and equally of course the latter attended the wedding. Jones had secured a certain sum of money, and with it a pair of





black eyes, and had no cause to repent of his bargain. As for my hero, he did not know exactly what to do, but at times he pined for domestic felicity coupled with his fair young pupil, Alice.





CHAPTER XIV.



ALICE IS HAPPY!



DURING the period that Herbert had been seeking a solace for his love disappointments in the burley and brattle of war, and gradually weaning himself from his unwholesome passion for Blanche, that lady, for her part, had not been idle. She had found great trouble occasioned her by Alice's hot and cold fits, who, at one time, seemed raised to the seventh heaven by the arrival of a letter from Herbert, and, then, if news were delayed, would fall into a state of despair, and feel sure he must be killed, or else he would





have written to let them know how he was



getting on.



Still Blanche endured it all bravely; she regarded it in the light of an expiation, and, so long as Herbert was absent, she could reflect on his marriage with her sister in perfect calmness. Not a thought of the happiness she resigned appeared to pervade her mind, and Alice, perfectly cured of all her jealous fears, hung on her sister as her dearest friend.

Fortunately for Blanche, she had a very powerful ally in her brother Gerald, who was now residing with his sister, and was tolerably steady. Blanche, for the sake of keeping the young gentleman out of mischief, as she said, though, perhaps, a feeling of weariness at the Tenby Hermitage may have had something to do in the matter, had refitted her house in Town, and almost the first visitors she received were Bertie Dymoke and his lovely wife.

Had anything been wanting to stimulate Alice's passion, it would have been found in





the glowing accounts Bertie was never weary of giving about his dear friend's gallantry. A timid retiring woman, ever since the time of Desdemona, is attracted by the narration of warlike deeds, and if a soupçon of a love for the hero is already visible, the fierce passion progresses by giant strides. Even Blanche, well as she had schooled her heart, could not refrain from a glow of mingled delight and regret when she heard how nobly Herbert had borne himself in the field, and felt at times as if the sacrifice were beyond her strength.

Still, she exerted such wondrous mastery over herself, that not a trace of this weakness was betrayed, save perhaps in the frequent headaches that, at this time, confined her to her chamber. At length, however, these feelings so brooded on her mind that she determined on dismissing them by one decided stroke, and wrote Herbert that she intended to spend the summer on the Lake of Constance, where she expected him to join her.





Our hero was not sorry for the summons, as he did not know precisely whither to bend his steps at the moment. He had dutifully acted as best-man at Jones' wedding, and when the happy couple had gone off to spend the honeymoon in the exquisite Salzkammergut, he felt that his occupation was entirely gone. He was strangely restless too, and had a craving for domesticity, for the past year of fierce excitement was necessarily followed by a reaction. He, therefore, hurried through the Tyrol to Lindau, where he found the lovely widow and Alice comfortably ensconced in one of the beautiful villas overlooking the lake.

The reception he met with from both ladies was most flattering, and he was forced to con❤ fess to himself that he would be a fool were he to reject the happiness vouchsafed to him. Alice had grown more lovely than ever, and in proportion as Blanche faded away it seemed as if her charms were transferred to her sister. Alice had grown more commanding and





resolute, much of her shyness had disappeared

by contact with society, but still she retained that hue of virginity which always had so distinguished her.

Blanche had christened her, on her first coming from the convent, her "Wild blush rose," but now she resembled the same flower after it had undergone inoculation by the skilful hand of the gardener, and, although the parent-stem could be distinctly traced, it had been heightened by fresh beauties, which added not only to its value but to its charm.

I will not attempt to describe Alice; for such descriptions are unsatisfactory at the best; every male reader of my story has his own ideal of feminine beauty-just as I have -but, to my lady readers, I will hint that if they will attempt to combine the two faces in the portraits of "Amy Robsart" and the "Lady with the Dogs," they may arrive at some notion of what I mean.

In the one, we have the perfection of inno





cence revealed in every feature, in the other that careless grace and dignity without which the former attribute appears tame. But the painter's pencil would be unable to pourtray the exquisite hue of Alice's complexion: had it been but the slightest tinge higher, it would have been unearthly, and ranked her among the angels; as it was, it excited an irresistible feeling as if she were too good for this world, and would soon wing her way to "her highborn kinsmen."

Many, on first seeing her, fancied that the fell demon of consumption produced that heightened glow on her complexion, but one glance at her broad, open chest dispelled the unwelcome idea: she moved along at once the queen of heaven and of love, and men could have bent down to worship her as she passed.

Blanche, too, in her way, was improved, although her features were sunken, and her brow revealed an incipient wrinkle. That sheer





animal beauty which had formerly intoxicated Herbert was tempered down, and the fierce passions which had once flashed across her face had passed, scarce leaving a trace behind. Perhaps the slightly sunken eye might reveal to the psychologist that the woman he gazed on had once loved deeply and suffered with equal intensity: but, fortunately, the mass are not such close observers, and there was nothing else to indicate to them that Blanche had erred and was now enduring the inexorable chastisement of her one great sin.

Blanche seemed to have transferred her affections to Gerald, who owed her so deep a debt of gratitude. She had made up her mind to leave him all she possessed, and at the present time allowed him the sum he once drew from his mother, and which Mr Brien's influence had caused to cease. His mother's excuse for her harshness was that, as he had chosen to quit the army without her cognizance, she presumed he was able to provide





for himself, and she needed all her money for the propagation of her religion. Blanche, who was ever indignant at any ungenerous action, at once came to the rescue, and the breach was rendered irreconcilable.

Mr Brien was by this time a shining light of the church, and the delight of all the elderly ladies who attended his chapel of ease, through his eloquence and his robust frame, and he had the promise of a deanery whenever his esteemed friend Lord Wynville came in again. His power over the ex-lady Folgate was too evident, and there was not the least doubt that he would inherit every shilling she had to leave. As for Gerald, he still had a lingering hope that his mother would not forget him in the end. Whether it were so, time will reveal.

With Gerald, Herbert was on the best possible terms, and with him wandered on foot through the glorious Bregenzer Wald, that outpost of the Vorarlberg, and revelled in the





exquisite scenery there hidden from the grand flight of birds of passage. The primitive simplicity of the peasants, their quaint costume and honest open manliness, pleased them both hugely, and many a happy hour did they spend sauntering along the lovely valley of the Schwarzach, or bandying jests with the quickwitted peasant maidens who came down from the mountain châlets to attend the various fairs that were held in the outlying villages.

But it must not be supposed that the ladies of the party were left to wear the willow: on the contrary, they joined in numerous excursions on the glorious lake and in the surrounding country. The place, however, which most pleased Alice's sensitive fancy, and which was consequently most repeatedly visited, was the rustic inn on the Gebhardsberg, whence I am emboldened to say the most magnificent view in the world may be enjoyed. Sitting out on the balcony and sipping your coffee, you have around you an exquisite panorama. Let me





borrow from Mr White's "Tour in the Tyrol," whose description I heartily endorse.

"Immediately beneath, a surging forest of firs, beeches, walnuts, and poplars, stretching from summit to base, where it appears to mingle with the orchards. Here and there grow weather-beaten crags burst through, higher and higher, till they join the mighty Pfändler, which runs on the right, feathered with pines, tier above tier, disputing possession of the summit with the hoary rocks. Thus ́is formed a grand semicircle behind the town, and carrying your eye onwards you have hills on hills on both shores, away to Constance and the Suabian Alps. And the broad blue lake, stretching between, blending with a faint twinkling haze in the distance, dotted here and there with a sail, or clouded with the trailing smoke, of a steamer. Füssach and Lindau seem but a mile, distant: and many a scattered gleam from wall and window denotes a teeming population on the German shore.





Turn and look toward Tyrol: you see peak on peak crested with snow, towering aloft in groups that excite the imagination as to the wonders you are to see when walking under their shadow.

"Around you is the pleasant voice of wind among the branches, and from below the voice of nature and of labour ascends to your ear. The secrets of both appear to be laid open to you. Cottages are thickly strewn about the base of the hill, and over the broad level, the Delta of the Rhine: and you see the hats of the women, who are hoeing among the vines and foliage, or tossing the hay, shining like disks of gold. Some are singing a homely song, which sounds musical in the distance. The roads seem pale brown ribands stretched across the levels, or curled along the hill sides. And there lies the town, apparently indulging in a siesta. And why not? here is the place for enjoyment, if anywhere."

Herbert perfectly agreed with the spirit of





the last paragraph, and did enjoy himself, not the least part of the enjoyment consisting in whispering with the lovely creature by his side. Blanche looked on with a sad smile, for it only corroborated her own preconceived ideas about the instability of Herbert's affections. Here he was paying the same devoted attention to Alice which he paid to herself some years before, and would doubtlessly feel equally heartbroken were his toy refused him; the last passion was always the most absorbing to him.

But, do what she would, Blanche could not prevent jealousy at times gnawing at her heart, and she felt, when some unusual inflection of his voice or some tender phrase reminded her of the past, as if she should yet like to lure her tassel-gentle back. Probably this lovemaking between Herbert and her sister was the severest trial she had yet endured. Poor creature! she was but a woman after all!

At length the hour arrived which Alice had so long and so lovingly expected; when Her





bert declared the depth of his devotion, and said that she alone could make him happy. The blessed reality almost deprived her of her senses; and yet, how could she, a poor ignorant woman as she humbly regarded herself, be necessary for the happiness of so great, so good, and so generous a man as Herbert? nestly she gazed on her lover, as if trying to read the truth in his eyes, and then, as if fully convinced by his open stedfast gaze, she threw herself into his arms and cowered to his breast with delight. Faith, convent, sister-all were forgotten in this ecstatic moment.

It was long ere Herbert could soothe her panting, fluttering heart, and she was enabled to realize the happiness laid bare before her. At length, when she recovered her equanimity, her first thought was to impart her secret to Blanche-to her dear sister who had so long and anxiously expected this moment, and would be so happy to hear of the fruition of her wishes.

Nor was Herbert unwilling that Blanche





should learn the secret, for that vanity which besets the wisest among us, told him he was taking a glorious revenge for her past slight of him; and he could show her that, even were he indifferent in her eyes, there was another who could appreciate him. And, although he remembered how warmly Blanche had urged this very step on him, still he imagined that some affection for him lurked in her bosom, and it would cost her a pang to give him up for ever. Herbert had stumbled on the truth



without suspecting it.



I need not speculate on Blanche's feelings, when the girl, over-joyed and over-excited, rushed into her room and imparted the blessed tidings. Outwardly she made no sign; she kissed Alice calmly on the forehead, uttered a fervent hope that she might be happy, and then bade her leave her, as she had letters to write.

But, when alone, what hell-born thoughts distracted Blanche's mind! what a tornado of





emotion her ill-regulated passions aroused; now that the moment had arrived she felt the loss she was about to endure, and she could not consent to it. Never should Herbert be her sister's! She thought she had schooled her heart to the sacrifice, she had felt it must be so for Alley's happiness; but no, it was too much.

But what could she do? How could she prevent a marriage which she had done her best to promote? What would Herbert say to her vacillation-what opinion would he form of her? But no matter, she would endure contumely, death even, sooner than this sacrilege, as she passionately called it, should take place. She would appeal to Herbert, no matter at what cost!

Hastily wiping away the traces of tears she descended to the sitting-room, and found there Herbert and Alice sitting side by side; her golden curls nestling against his cheek. The





sight kindled the flame of jealousy, but sup, pressing all signs of it, she said calmly enough:





Herbert, I wish to have a few words with you-and as the evening is so lovely, would you mind giving me a sail on the lake in your little skiff?"

Of course he assented, and they left the



room.



For more than an hour Alice sat at the window watching the progress of the boat, and blessing her sister who had done so much. to insure her happiness, until it disappeared behind a projecting promontory.





In the meanwhile a terrible scene took place in that solitary boat.

Blanche was silent for a long time, and Herbert sat silently watching her, for he knew her temper so well, till she suddenly burst forth: "Herbert! this marriage must not be!"





Why not?" he asked in amazement, “you





have strenuously urged it on me for months, and it was entirely owing to your solicitation that I made up my mind at last."

"I know it, Herbert, but I cannot consent to it now that the moment has arrived. Do not urge me for my reasons, but consent to break it off."

"Have you no regard for Alice, then? Have you not told me repeatedly that her happiness is bound up in mine?"





"Let her endure as I have," the frenzied woman exclaimed, "do you think I have not suffered during the last two years? and when I fancied I had conquered all my evil passions, you came back and destroyed my resolutions." "Fickle, perverse woman," Herbert said, savagely, "you have already destroyed my happiness once; you know how I built my every hope on marrying you, and you spurned me from your feet; now, that the wound is cicatrized, and I seek the solace I require from another, you interfere once more. But I





tell you this time



you



will not succeed. I have

suffered enough by your distempered fantasy, and am no longer a child."

Oh! Herbert! dearest Herbert, by that love you once bore me, I implore you let not this ill-omened marriage take place. You will kill me if you do not consent to break it off. It is more than I can endure."

And to save your life I am to forfeit Alice ? No, no, Blanche, this is but the idle prompting of jealousy--you had it in your power to be happy with me once, and I offered you a heart which, from some silly scruple, you rejected, and which was then wholly yours. It is now too much for you to ask that I should give up all prospect of future happiness, to satisfy such a dog-in-the-manger-like feeling on your part.





Again was Blanche silent for a long time, while Herbert sat moodily revolving all that had passed. At length she broke forth passionately again





"So, you will not consent to recall your promise to Alice? she asked in a hoarse



voice.



"No!"





"Then you shall never be hers," the infuriated woman shrieked as she threw herself on his chest and clasped him tightly round the neck. The frail skiff oscillated violently, and heeled over, and the couple sank into the water, Blanche triumphantly whispering in his ear, "Mine, mine for ever!





Terrible was the struggle ere Herbert could loose the hold that Blanche held so tightly round his neck, but it was a struggle for life. Blanche was determined on dying, and he must not survive her, but he had no desire of parting from all the comforts of this world so easily. But in vain did he strive to disentangle her hold of him the more he thrust her from him



:



the more she clung, and he was on the point

of slowly sinking with her to the bottom,





when she suddenly relaxed her grip-her arms sunk gradually down, and Herbert watched her sinking.

At once, he suffered a strange revulsion: but a second before he had been engaged in a death struggle with the impassioned woman, but now that he felt himself safe he was ashamed of his conduct. He hastily dived after the sinking woman and managed to bring her to the surface, but all was over with her. Blanche had gone to another world with all her sins unannealed. Her poor husband was fearfully avenged!



In vain did Herbert try to right the skiff: encumbered with Blanche, he had only one arm to use; and besides, now that the excitement was over, he began to feel how weak he really was. He found himself in a very dangerous position, but just at the moment, he saw another skiff shoot from behind a point,





and heard a merry drinking-song trolled by a familiar voice. Uttering a loud shout, he soon brought Gerald to his side.

"Good God, Herbert, what's the matter ? "





Here, for Heaven's sake, take your sister into your boat and get to land as quick as you can to try and save her, though I fear it is too late. Our boat was upset by one of those unlucky puffs of wind that blow down from the mountains, and we were in the water before there was a chance of saving ourselves."

Off they set for land, both pulling their hardest at the oars, and reached a peasant's hut. But though every effort was made to restore Blanche to consciousness, it was all in vain, and the two young men returned to Lindau with their mournful burden.

Such was the price at which Alice's happiness was bought! better, though, for her a thousand





fold, had she been the victim on that day



instead of her sister.



·米



*



A year has elapsed: Gerald and Alice have been enriched by Blanche's will, and the girl has been gradually weaned from her deep grief by the constant assiduity of her lover. She was residing with the Dymokes, and, as the season for mourning was past, she could offer no opposition to the consummation of her marriage.

It took place at St George's, with all the solemnity befitting a couple so largely endowed with the luxuries of this world, and the ceremony was duly performed by a bishop. All went merry as a marriage-bell: the dead were left to mourn their dead, for Herbert and Alley were too full of the present to think of the past.

Had it not been so, Herbert would probably have noticed a figure dressed in deep black





and a thick veil, who appeared to shrink from sight behind a projecting pillar, and evidently did not belong to the wedding party. She watched him vindictively as he walked down the aisle, leading his blushing bride, and muttering to herself, "Now I have him on the hip!" she glided out of a side door and was lost to view!

Who was it? surely you can guess, my reader! It was Nemesis in the shape of an outraged wife, whose adventures since we last parted with her now demand our attention.



END OF VOL. II.