ONLY A WOMAN!



CHAPTER I.



THE ENGLISH COLONY.



THE English have a talent for colonization, which is regarded with envy by the whole of the civilized world. Our pioneers of progress ignore any limits to their efforts in planting the British banner on every newly-discovered spot : in short, it is the genius of Englishmen to extend their dominions, and we must do them the credit of saying that they allow no foolish scruples of mine and thine to interfere. From Manchester a lamentation is heard that the





trade is growing overstocked, that calicos have become a drug in the market, and, presto, a new outlet is at once sought for, and the merchants rub their hands in glee at the thought that they have discovered fresh mental food for the quidnuncs of the Geographical Society to digest.



:



But commercial Britannia does not confine herself exclusively to this legitimate method of forcing trade and when all other means fail, there is nothing so easy as to concoct a war with some outer barbarian, and prove to him by incontrovertible arguments that cotton and Christianity are sisters, the one never entering a new country without having the other close at her heels. This is an excellent arrangement": the merchants reap all the profits, the people pay all the expenses, and if the latter are satisfied with the crop of glory produced by a lavish sowing of sovereigns, who are we that we should object to such a satisfactory division of the profit and loss?





But Englishmen have not confined their attention exclusively to the Pagan world: they have planted colonies mnch nearer home, which have their uses, although they generally entail an outlay in no way commensurate with the return. Just as the French support their colonies in Algeria and Cayenne at an enormous expense, in order that Government may thus get rid of all obnoxious persons and rogues of low degree-so we have our establishments. scattered over the Continent, for the especial behoof of levanters, adventurers, and swindlers, who find a change of air beneficial, or, at any rate, preferable to the confinement of the Queen's Bench or her Majesty's House of Correction. So far, at any rate, the French Government act on the strictest principles of recipro city: while we allow their assassins and republicans a present shelter among us without let or hindrance, so the French, on the other hand, offer no objection to the stay on their shores of the dangerous classes of our population. It





would be difficult to decide which has the

better side of the bargain.

Boulogne, Calais, Ostende, are cities of refuge, sacred as those which the Hebrews used to affection, and so long as the worthy gentry who congregate there pay their way, or at any rate remain on a satisfactory footing with their landlords, the authorities take no heed of their antecedents. Augustus Fitzgreville, hitherto known among us as John Smith, drinks his p'tit verre and smokes his cigar unimpeded by the police : no inquiries are made as to the legitimacy of the name that appears on his passport, and in what can we say that he is worse treated than a civis Britannicus should be when travelling on the Continent under the mighty ægis of Lord John Russell's name?

But it is necessary to remark that all English continental colonies are not the same as those favoured few I have mentioned; and they may be divided into certain distinct categories. Thus, we have the fashionable resorts,





such as Rome, Florence, Vienna: then, again, the cheap residences, as Gotha, Heidelberg, Tours and, lastly, the educational establishments, among which I may enumerate Mannheim, Frankfurt-on-the-Maine-but I am not disposed to write a catalogue raisonnée of all the dwelling-places of Englishmen abroad: those who desire such information, I can safely refer to Mr Murray's invaluable Hand-books.

Mannheim is the colony to which I desire my readers' company for a few pages; and in that despairingly regular town, I wish to introduce them to the family of Sir Norton Folgate, Kt., &c., where I have the entrée. Mannheim is just one of those towns in which you can survive for a night you walk about it seeing the sights, and are struck with the strange idea that the town must have been once inhabited by giants, so absurdly disproportionate to the population are the enormous palaces, magnificent barracks, opera house, and other public institutions. It is not advisable to try and look up





any friend there: for, unless you have diligently studied Fair Rosamond's maze at Hampton Court, a tour of discovery through Mannheim would infallibly render you a candidate for Hanwell. The town is divided into blocks numbered from A to Z, and subdivided into other blocks bearing such titles as K 4, S 7, and when you have found by infinite labour the parallelogram you require, you have then to look up P 22, the identical street you want. The calculating boy would find himself baffled here, I assure you. However, as I have carefully studied my way, you may intrust yourself to me as guide, while I conduct you to No. 17, L8, B4, where Sir Norton Folgate has for the present established his household gods. But before we enter, a word with you about his antecedents,

Sir Norton, then, was a highly distinguished British merchant, who had gone through the va rious stages of civic dignity, and having exhausted all the pleasures of turtle and venison, had retired to his country seat, fondly hoping to enjoy





the jucunda et idonea vitæ, as bosom friend of the county aristocracy. He believed himself justified in entertaining this hope, for he had married, in second wedlock, and somewhat late in life, Miss Kitty O'Flaherty, the recently deposed belle of the Clonakilty ball-room, but whose remote connection with Lord Polyanthus had not procured her anything more substantial than





flattering attentions from the gay and gallant dragoons quartered in that flourishing Irish town to which I have just alluded.

The campaign was at an end: and Miss Kitty awoke to the far-from pleasing consciousness that British officers were a mercenary set of fellows, not possessed of the warm impulsive feelings of her countrymen. Strange to say, though, admirer as she was of the Hibernian character, she had not accepted any of the offers made her by the Squireens, but had set her cap at an Englishman, for she wisely thought that a smaller modicum of love would be wondrously enhanced by a good balance at the banker's.





She had, then, almost made up her mind to virginity and strict devotion to her religious offices, when chance threw Sir Norton in her way.

He came, he saw, and Kitty conquered: he had recently purchased an estate in the Encumbered Court near Clonakilty, and on his tour of inspection was "inthrojuced" to Miss O'Flaherty. There could not be a better match conceivable : although he was a widower with three grown-up daughters (malicious rumour whispering that their mother had been a cook), he had plenty of money, while Miss O'Flaherty found the blood. The high contracting parties soon came to an amicable settlement: in consideration of a jointure of £2000 a year, settled on her and payable quarterly, the lady consented to assume the name of Folgate, and quarter her arms with those of her husbandwhen the Herald's College had discovered them for him.

The only stipulation which threatened the





contract with suspension was one made by the lady, that Sir Norton must retire from business







immajately" (her mode of pronouncing the word, I believe), but to this Sir Norton stoutly demurred. He had an ambition, and that was to make a quarter of a million in trade, and he was just seventy thousand pounds short. The lady was compelled to effect a compromise: he was allowed five years to accomplish his purpose, and bound to retire at the expiration of that period. All this being satisfactorily settled, there was no further obstacle to the marriage, and Sir Norton bore his blushing bride home with him to the Town House in Bryanstone Square.

At the outset, the three girls were disposed to regardtheir Irish mamma with hostile glances, but her unchangeable good-humour and pleasant smiling face soon gained the way to their hearts. They were but children, and hardly knew what they lost, and the birth of two brothers, christened Brian and Gerald, seemed





only to give them a fresh instalment of playthings. The girls were carefully educated at home, no expense being spared for the first masters, for Sir Norton was practically acquainted with the dangers of neglect in that quarter, and by the time the five years had expired, they were fit to take their places in the first circles. They were very pretty, thoroughly English girls, rejoicing in the names of Blanche, Harriette, and Alice, and my story will have much to say about them hereafter.

The only regret Lady Folgate was ever heard to utter was that they could not enter the society for which they were adapted, and their graces were thrown away upon the Watlings, the Dowgate Hills, and the Bucklersburys, with whom their father's position forced them in a measure to associate. They could take no interest in the price of dry-goods and tobaccos, while the worthy cits, on the other hand, considered all conversation about the opera or the belles lettres as so much time wasted. Hence Lady





Folgate determined on quitting London for the country, and soon induced her facile husband to purchase an estate in Berkshire.

It may be a matter of surprise that her ladyship did not visit the mansion in Ireland and astonish her relatives and friends by a display of her splendour, but she was no fool, and had not the slightest inclination to expose her stepdaughters to the wiles of Irish fortune-hunters. As it was, she had found the greatest difficulty in keeping aloof from a swarm of needy cousins, who wished to take her house by storm, and she was only enabled to guard her treasures by the sacrifice of the larger portion of her private income, as a sop to Cerberus.

To the country, then, they went, but Lady Folgate was sorely discomfited when she found that she could not achieve that position to which she thought herself by birth entitled. She learned, much to her surprise, that money could not do everything, and, although a very pleasant thing, was unable to purchase the





friendship of the large-hearted and honest gentlemen of England. They were polite, as was their nature; they ate of the good things Lady -Folgate provided, nor did they disdain their host's excellent claret; but they went no further. Lady Folgate, with her sharp Irish wit, soon saw that there would be no marriage or giving in marriage by which she could attain a status in society, and after two or three years' unsatisfactory waiting on Providence, she felt that something must be done. The education of her boys gave her the desired opportunity.

Sir Norton was desirous that the lads should go to Eton, and thus secure an aristocratic position; but to this Lady Folgate, though fully recognising the advantage of such an education, could not be brought to consent. She loved her two bright-eyed boys madly, almost sinfully, and would have sooner parted with a limb than from her darlings. They must not be out of her sight for a day, and Sir Norton was





compelled to yield to her passionate entreaties. Then the lady suggested that they should proceed to the Continent, and attend to the boys' education, and Sir Norton, with a wry face, consented.

At Tours they had resided for a year or two, while the boys were picking up French as the sparrows do crumbs; and they had gradually been converted from hearty, noisy, English boys, into staid, sallow, long-haired youths. But Lady Folgate was delighted with the change they had learned to bow with ineffable grace: they sang French chansons divinely, but they could hardly spell an English word. That, however, was of no consequence it was more important for them to know foreign languages than their own.

On leaving Tours, the party proceeded to Mannheim, that the boys might learn German, and Lady Folgate was here quite in her element. Her great wealth, as well as the remarkable beauty of the girls, gained her the





first position in the English colony, and she was regarded with reverence. Before long, Sir Norton had donned his deputy lieutenant's uniform, and attended a levée of the Grand Duchess Stephanie, that amiable and kind-hearted woman, whose loss the Grand Duchy deeply deplores. This was soon followed by an invitation to the Wednesday evening soirées, and Lady Folgate was in Elysium.. Here she was, hand in glove, as you may term it, with royalty, treated kindly, almost familiarly, and her daughters secure of partners from the best German nobility. How she thanked her stars that she had hit on the happy thought of coming here, and she almost made up her mind to make it her constant residence.

Sir Norton, too, was tolerably happy: he had very little to do, it is true, but that little he did well. He soon grew quite accustomed to Rhenish wines and German cookery, and very rarely regretted the absence of the roast beef. He found a parcel of old half-pay





captains to gossip with, and took huge consti tutional walks with the girls; as for the boys, they were too deeply engaged with their various masters to be allowed time for healthy recreation. Besides, the old gentleman had plenty of shooting and fishing; although he never, even by accident, winged a partridge or hooked a trout, the exercise gave him an enormous appetite for dinner. In short, he felt not the slightest inclination to return home at present.

Under these circumstances it was considered advisable that a private tutor should be procured from England to take exclusive charge of the boys, who were now growing fast, and superintend their studies. Sir Norton had, therefore, written to London to order such an article of domestic furniture, and at the time we make his acquaintance, he is in a fair way of procuring the requisite animal. Little he recked, unhappy man, what a blow he was preparing for his comfort! But I am anticipating.





The family are seated at breakfast in a splendid apartment, large as any in Belgravia, and forming one of a superb suite, for which Sir Norton paid a yearly rental of eighty pounds. The table is covered with every conceivable delicacy: potted game, smoked goosebreasts, delicious honey from the Black Forest, humble rashers of bacon, poached eggs, etc., formed an admirable mélange of English and foreign dainties. Sir Norton, with a bottle of Chablis by his side, has just unfolded his Times, which he hands to Alice, to air at the immense China stove that lines the one side of the room, and is now opening his letters. The perusal of one of them appears to afford him considerable satisfaction.







My dear," he says, turning to his smiling spouse, "I am happy to inform you that I have been quite successful in my search for a tutor. Dr Squills writes me-h'm-h'm-he has secured the services of a Cambridge gentleman, who has just passed his examination—a





perfect scholar, my dear, and of good familyfourth cousin to an English Baron-son of a dignitary of the Church, but in straightened circumstances, owing to recent losses; most satisfactory, you will agree with me, my dear, I think? He will arrive immediately."

The girls appeared to hear these news with considerable pleasure, too; they interchanged those masonic signs peculiar to family life, and then dutifully waited for their mother to speak. A new inmate, of good family and education, who would dispel the monotony of home, was decidedly a feature.

"I quite agree with you, Sir Norton," said his wife, fanning herself with her serviette, after the exertions she had gone through in eating her breakfast, "he will be a great acquisition to our family circle. He will be a companion for the girls too, and prevent their learning from rusting.”

"Well! you see, my dear, h'm-h'm—well,





I hardly know; Dr Squills says a young gen



tleman, and you see





"Ah now, and what nonsense have you got in your head, Sir Norton? In faith, I really think you suppose my girls will be falling in love with him? A pretty compliment you pay to the education I have given them."

"I am sure, mamma," said Blanche, the eldest daughter, a dark-browed, haughty beauty, of a very decided character, "you need be under no apprehension of that sort. The young man will know his place, I trust, and will not insult us by such audacity as papa seems to anticipate."

And the young lady marched indignantly out of the room, with flushed cheeks and arched neck, her mother regarding her with mingled feelings of apprehension and admiration. Harriette, the second daughter, then took up ball.



the



“I really think, papa, this is the wisest step you have taken for some time; he will be a





most useful person; he can go to the library



and arrange



for us, tre; while in the evenings, when we do not want him, you can have him all to yourself, to play chess."

about our box at the thea

And she too followed her sister's example, and left the room; the rattling of a pianoforte in the study proving, soon after, that she was engaged in her favourite amusement, for she was a magnificent performer, and would sit for hours at the instrument, improvising the most admirable harmonies.

"Phew!" whistled the worthy knight, “here's a storm in a tea cup! And what does my little Alley say to the presence of this dan gerous young gentleman, who has already created such a commotion in our quiet household?"

Alice was indubitably the prettiest of the three sisters, but it required to know her thoroughly before you came to such a conclusion. At the first meeting, Blanche's fully





developed charms allowed no opportunity to investigate the features of her sisters, but after a few visits you felt yourself irresistibly attracted by Alice's half thoughtful, half bright countenance. It was for all the world like an April day; the sun shone out gloriously for a season, and then a dark cloud came athwart the horizon, not so dense, however, but that the silver lining was always perceptible through it. She was terribly bashful, and the slightest attention called up a vivid blush; hinnuleo similis, she sought to avoid notice, and yet, when she had once grown accustomed to you, and felt you were not laughing at her naïve remarks, she seemed, as if in gratitude, to cling to you, and watch every word that fell from your lips.

Such was Alice, and when she heard her father's remark her cheek was tinged with a peachy hue, and she ran up and hid her face with her curls, as she bent down over the old gentleman and lovingly kissed him on the fore





head. This was one of Alley's great safetyvalves whenever any awkward question was asked by her family, she would only respond by a demonstrative kiss. And so distressed did Alley always appear if they tried to force her into an avowal of her feelings, that they had grown to recognise this as her answer, and after agreeing that she was a strange girl they



left her in peace.



Poor little Alley! affectionate creature as she was, she could not help feeling a species of delight that a young gentleman was about to join their family circle. Innocent as a dove, she only reflected on the pleasure she would feel in having some one near her who could answer her questions, for she was much given to casuistry (in the better sense of the term), and was continually laying harmless pitfalls for her conscience. So then, without a reply to her father's inquiry, beyond the much-meaning kiss, she retired from the room to her studies, leaving Sir Norton lost in amazement at the





startling effect produced by his harmless communication. But Lady Folgate soon returned to the attack.

"My dear pappy," she said, "I am not sorry that you made the remark you did: for I anticipated some danger from the arrival of this young gentleman among us. It would almost have been better if we had selected some elderly curate, and the very liberal salary you offered would have been a great temptation."



rage,



"Zounds, madam," Sir Norton replied, in a " and suppose the man is a gentleman, and that one of my daughters were to fall in love with him-there would be no great harm in that, I presume? I have money enough to set them up in life, and I should be the last man in the world to baulk my girls' inclinations."

Lady Folgate gave way to an almost imperceptible shudder, as she listened to these heterodoxical opinions, but, like a wise woman, she made no reply. She knew that her husband,





like another highly useful domestic animal, must be humoured, not driven, but she registered a silent vow, that, with her will, not one of her daughters should marry a penniless tutor. The object of her ambition was to keep all the money for her boys, and to do that her step-daughters must marry well. But not a word of this did she breathe to her husband.

"Now then," said Sir Norton, starting up, "has Alley got her hat on yet? It is time for us to be moving, if we want to get back by dinner time."

At this moment a man-servant glided in, bearing a card on a salver, which he handed to Sir Norton. The old gentleman scarce noticed it ere he exclaimed, "Herbert Leigh, the very man, by Jingo! show him in at once."

Ladies and gentlemen, I beg to introduce my hero to you.





CHAPTER II.



THE PRIVATE TUTOR.



HERBERT LEIGH, the young gentleman who had undertaken to act as bear-leader to Sir Norton's boys, had been forced by untoward circumstances to accept a charge which he felt would seriously impede the progress of his studies. He was the only son of that cele brated divine and eminent Greek scholar, the Dean of St Mildred's, and had been educated with peculiar care by his father; at Shrewsbury, when captain of the school, he had borne off a scholarship at Cambridge, and with the allowance his father made him had pursued





his studies very creditably, finding no occasion for running into debt, that great stumblingblock of collegians.

Naturally of a quiet and reserved temper, fond of reading and abstruse topics, Herbert had found no pleasure in the boisterous sports of his fellow-students, nor wasted his time in dissipation. In short, he was quite a model student, and was regarded with great affection by the Warden and Fellows. Everything seemed to predict him a prosperous and successful career, when he was completely thrown out of gear by the sudden death of his father.

When the first natural sorrow had in a measure yielded to the pressing necessities of the hour, and Herbert found time to examine into his position, he discovered, to his great surprise, that he was worse than a beggar. The Dean, though so clever a man in all connected with Greek literature, was but a child in business matters. Every bubble scheme had found in him a willing patron, for he had





not the time to spare from his "particles" to investigate the nature of the business proposed, and, as a natural consequence, he had lost. money.

So long, however, as the proceeds of his living satisfied his moderate wants, and allowed him to keep his library well stocked, he paid but slight attention to the state of his balance. At times he thought that he was behaving unfairly to his son, and had almost made up his mind to insure his life for a considerable amount: but just at the moment of fruition, he was tempted by the sale of the library of an eminent divine, and the saved two-hundred-and-fifty pounds followed the thousands that had preceded them.

So soon as Herbert had realized his position, his first step was to retire from College, for he had no longer the means at command to pay his way but he reckoned without his host. When he made known his intention to the Warden, that worthy gentleman appealed to





the other dons, and they unanimously resolved to subscribe the amount among them to pay Herbert's College expenses for two years.

Such an offer it would have been the height of ingratitude for Herbert to refuse so he accepted the humiliation (as he secretly regarded it) in the spirit with which it was offered. The only relative on whom he had any claim was a maternal uncle, a Mr Gaston, whom he had never seen, and who expressed no wish to come to his assistance: and when Herbert, believing it his duty, wrote to make known to him the munificent offer made by the College dons, no reply was given to the letter.

Herbert passed through his examination with credit, and was casting about for some employment, to fill up his time prior to ordination, and the enjoyment of a journeyman's wage as curate, when chance again befriended him. Dr Squills, Dr Squills, happening to be a particular friend of the Bursar of St Michaels,

naturally wrote to that gentleman, when Sir





Norton required a tutor, and the Bursar spontaneously thought of Herbert. He sent for him and offered him the situation, strongly advising him to accept it. Two hundred a year was not to be despised in these hard times, and Herbert would have an opportunity of seeing the world. Herbert listened, thought, and then accepted; and with a gratification of one hundred pounds in his pocket, as a buona mano from his College, he set out on his travels. That he arrived safely at Mannheim, we already know.

Having thus examined the motives which induced Herbert Leigh to accept the offer of private tutor, I will now attempt an analysis of his character, for on that the incidents of my story will hinge. It may be said of him, then, concisely, that he had but one fault: but it was so great that it neutralized all his virtues. He was well-principled, good-natured, and generous; he was not addicted to any vice-but he was fearfully undecided. To him might safely





be applied the warning, "Unstable as water thou shalt not excel." He allowed himself to be led by his feelings rather than by his reason, and though he had not yet been thrown into any great temptation, one or two instances of weakness of which he had been guilty should have warned him to be on his guard against this great failing, now that he was about to expose himself to the distractions of that great Vanity Fair, known as the world.

Whenever he fell away, it caused him the bitterest regrets; he made the most solemn vows of repentance, but, so soon as the remorse had worn off, and the excitement was revived, Herbert was prone to temptation, and generally succumbed. While at College, he had felt that the eyes of the dons were upon him, and this kept him in check; and, after his father's death, he considered it a point of honour to keep straight; but now that he was his own master, all his firm resolves were dissipated, and he felt, like an unbitted steed, a





strong inclination to dash out and astonish even himself.

Nor had he that great safety-guard of ingenuous youth, a legitimate attachment hitherto, his time had been too much devoted to study for him to think of such pleasing relaxation as love, and indeed, a collegiate town is not the place to evoke any such graceful sentiments. Having now completed his college education, he was about to enter on that much more difficult and dangerous study of the world. Whether he has sufficient ballast to keep his keel straight, the progress of my story will disclose.

Of one thing, however, there can be no doubt; he was excessively handsome, and so Lady Folgate thought, as she bent a scrutinizing glance upon him, and began to agree with her husband that there might be some danger in introducing so elegant a young gentleman into their family circle. It was evident, at any rate, that Harriette's idea of rendering him





serviceable could not be carried out, and her Ladyship could not refrain from an uncomfortable feeling, that the tutor was born to command and they to obey. But her scrutiny was interrupted by Sir Norton advancing with out-stretched hand:

"Glad to see you, Mr Leigh; hope you had a pleasant journey. Allow me to introduce you to Lady Folgate" (an interruption through the necessity of Herbert and the lady bowing); "and now, my dear sir, I must tell you what arrangements I have made for your comfort. I am sorry to say that we cannot quarter you in the house, but I have secured you a nice suite of rooms close at hand; and we shall be always happy to see you at meals, when have no better engagement."



you



Many a high-born gentleman would not have taken one tithe the trouble about a tutor that Sir Norton, a son of nobody, displayed, and Herbert was so affected by the kindness shown to him, a perfect stranger, that he





cordially grasped the old gentleman's hand, and began to stammer forth his thanks.







Tut, tut," said Sir Norton, half peevishly, "the character we received of you was sufficient inducement for me to do all I could to promote your comfort. Ah, Alice! my child!" he added, turning to the girl, who had just entered the room, and started back in dismay on seeing a stranger, "ready for your walk, eh? Well, suppose we go and show Mr Leigh his new lodgings, and then we'll take a stroll about the town and introduce him to our curiosities."

As they walked along the street, Herbert tried in vain to draw Alley into conversation, for he could see through the thick veil she wore that she was remarkably pretty, and he felt a considerable inclination to form an acquaintance with her as soon as possible. But it was all of no use: Alley made no reply, but drew closer and closer to her father's side, until in sheer despair Herbert turned to Sir





Norton and began talking with him on general



subjects.



"Come!" thought Herbert to himself as he sat on the dingy straight-backed sofa in his lodging, and blew a meditative cloud; "I fancy I am rather comfortably tiled in here. What a pretty girl that was too! I wonder if her sisters are anything like her,—if so, I shall be in Elysium; I hope though they are not so distressingly shy this young lady seems to be. However, our acquaintance will soon ripen into friendship, I have no doubt. So now, to get ready for dinner."

And Herbert began making very elaborate preparations for his toilet, nor could he at all be satisfied with the bow of his handkerchief, until he had tied it some half dozen times.

On reaching Sir Norton's, where they dined at the unearthly hour of three, Herbert found all the family assembled, and was introduced in due form to his pupils and to the girls. He was much struck with Blanche's beauty,





and the young lady seemed equally attracted by his personal appearance, for she visibly thawed, and began conversing with the tutor as if he were almost on an equality with her. Herbert was much surprised, too, at noticing the great amount of general information the young lady appeared to possess, and she talked fluently on topics which to Herbert, who had so long devoted himself exclusively to abstruse points, were as a sealed book. It seemed to occur to him that his education was not yet finished, as he had supposed after taking his college degree.' Hundreds of allusions were made by the young lady to recent French and German works which she assumed he had read, and Herbert was loth to tell her that Greek and Latin were the only languages he was as yet acquainted with.



:



With the lads Herbert got on very well indeed he had but little time to devote to them, for their foreign masters superintended the greater portion of their education: but he had





one satisfaction, that Alley, who had not yet concluded her studies, was in the habit of invading the school-room very frequently. By gentle degrees Herbert woke up to the pleasing idea that Alice was an uncommonly pretty girl, and that it would afford him great gratification to form her mind for her; hence he was only too glad, when Alley (now quite recovered from her shyness) came up to him with some innocent query such as:

"Mr Herbert, will you be kind enough to tell me the meaning of this Latin sentence?" Or mayhap:

"Mr Herbert, this passage in Göthe is dreadfully difficult to understand, and yet I must have the meaning perfect before Miss Schwab comes; oh, do take the dictionary and help me to construe it."

And she would stand so prettily before him with downcast eyes, every now and then looking up with delight into his face, as difficulty after difficulty was removed, that Herbert





would have been a Goth if he had not admired her. But pooh! she was a mere child; he was very fond of her, certainly, she was a good little thing-well, well, take care of your heart, Master Herbert: there's an old saying, but a true one, that pity is akin to love. It was all very

right and proper that you should try and shield Alley from the wrath of her German governess, but you had no occasion to pore so closely over the dictionary with her, and allow her long silky curls to rustle against your cheek.

But though Miss Alice was a child in years, she was a thorough woman in mind, and thought it remarkably agreeable to have such a nice young man as Herbert io listen to her confidences. She had as yet had no occasion to ask her heart how it was really inclined toward him, and if any one had suggested to her that she was on the verge of love, she would have been very angry at the idea. Still there was something curious about the affair; she spent a great portion of the morning in the school-room, and





chatted with the tutor; but when she met him in the salon, where the family were present, she sat as demurely as if he were quite a stranger to her, and hardly ventured to join in the conversation. Now and then she would turn a stealthy glance upon him, as he sat by Blanche, who condescended to talk affably with him, and a heightened colour in her cheek betrayed that she felt some annoyance, and wished that morning were come, and it was time to recommence her German studies.

It was quite true Blanche gave her sister very sufficient cause for jealousy-always supposing that she really loved Herbert. She had quite put off her airs of hauteur, and it had grown into a settled affair that she and Herbert should play at chess every evening. And a very long time the game usually lasted; it was wonderful how evenly they were matched and how difficult it was to gain the advantage. Generally, however, Herbert lost the game; perhaps, the attention he bestowed on Blanche's





magnificently modelled arm, as she moved a piece, had something to do with it, but what do I know?

Then they had fallen into a habit of talking in a low voice, and Alley could have sworn that more than once, when Herbert was helping her sister to arrange the pieces, their hands were mysteriously clasped, and that Blanche the magnificent did not seem at all offended. On the contrary, the pressure was returned, or at least Alley thought so, and it was too badthat it was! And Alley's hand would tremble in turn, and her crotchet-needle would fall, and a sad confusion be instituted in her work. basket.





All this while, Sir Norton, unsuspicious of Alley's feelings, was delighted to notice the excellent understanding on which Blanche and the young tutor stood to each other. He had grown to like Herbert exceedingly : he listened with the gravity of an alderman to all his long stories; never interrupted him by any imperti





nent remarks, as so many young men are wont to behave to their seniors, and joined him readily in his huge constitutional walks. In short, the tutorship was almost nominal, and Herbert, too proud to take money he had not fairly earned, remonstrated with Sir Norton more than once on the forced idleness to which he was condemned. At last, wearied with his importunities, and glad at the same time to find so proper a spirit in a young man whom he hoped to attach to himself by nearer ties, Sir Norton told him that he should appoint him his secretary, and thus fill up his time, and Herbert could, of course, make no further objections.

The only persons in the family who seemed to regard the present state of matters with an angry eye, were her Ladyship and Harriette. The motives instigating the former I have already alluded to; while the latter was stirred by a very different feeling. Although she was rather of a blue temperament, and devoted to the 'ologies, she was a woman above all else,





and certainly thought that a fair share of Herbert's attention should be paid to her. But he devoted himself exclusively to Blanche, and Harriette, who could not pretend to such beauty as her sister, in her heart pitied the poor young man for being attracted by mere physical charms. Out of sheer compassion for him, she played off upon him the whole battery of her mental accomplishments, not forgetting a few speaking glances, but Herbert, with his eyes fixed on the blushing beauty before him, could offer Harriette nothing more than politeness, the article she least desired. After a while, then, Harriette really began to dislike the young man, for she was suffering from the "spreta injuria forma," and looked about for an ally, whom her quick vision told her she would find in her step-mother.

Nor was she deceived; Lady Folgate had conceived an irresistible dislike for Herbert from the moment she first set eyes on him, for she felt that he was just the man to thwart all





her plans, and she would have given worlds to turn him out of the house. But Sir Norton was always most obstinate where he knew himself in the right, and she was sure that any hint at her designs world put him on his guard. Hence she summoned Harriette to her councils, and they racked their brains effectually to discover some way to counteract the young man's fascinations.





Mamma," said the young lady one morning, as they sat talking for the hundredth time about Herbert, "you must notice the scandalous, I might almost say disgraceful, way in which Blanche throws herself at that young fellow's head--positively throws herself. Whenever he enter the room, he takes a seat by her side, as if it were his right, and poor, dear, stupid papa sees it all, and does not interfere to stop it. Oh! I have no patience with such goings on."

Lady Folgate heaved a gentle sigh, and then replied:





My dear child, I am as well aware of the sad state of matters in this house as you are. But what can I do to alter them? Sir Norton, I am confident, would not have the slightest objection to give Blanche to that penniless adventurer, if he thought her happiness depended from the match; and he would thus déstroy all the happy plans I had formed for the future prosperity of my dear girls. My ambition was that Blanche should make a great match, which would open the way for you, my dear Harriette; and her beauty is just of the nature to fascinate some young nobleman. She is a magnificent girl, we must all allow, and if nature has not endowed her with such mental gifts as you possess, my dear girl, a lover would not pry too closely into that.. She is fit to take her place in the first society, and I need not tell you that her marrying well will be of the utmost advantage to yourself. And now to see my plans overthrown by Sir Norton's obstinacy!"





"Oh!" replied Harriette, somewhat piqued, "there can be no denying Blanche's great beauty, though I doubt whether it will wear well-however, that is her husband's consideration, not mine. She is fond of admiration, and nothing would please her more than to have a swarm of young men dangling about her: but where is she to find them here? These German Counts and Barons have no money, and I am sure Blanche will not fall in love with any of them. She is more English than the English. Well, there are none of her countrymen here, whom she can condescend to, and you throw in her way a young man like Mr Leigh, who is just the very person to please her. What can the result be but what we now deplore?"

"There is much truth in what you say, Harriette, and I'll tell you what had best be done under the circumstances. We cannot conveniently return to England, until the boys' education is completed: and the next best





thing, then, is to migrate to Wiesbaden for the summer. There we shall have no lack of beaux, who will divert Blanche's attention from her present swain, and when that is satisfactorily settled, we must manage to drop him down easily. If Alley were not such a child, I should not like her passing so much of her time in the school-room; but, at any rate, we must get rid of the young man as soon as possible, for fear of ulterior consequences. I will arrange everything with Sir Norton, love: my health is very delicate, and change of air will do me good; and although Sir Norton is so obstinate, I will do him the justice to say that he is too excellent a husband to deny me such a harmless request."

I should not have granted room to this conversation, had it not taught us two material facts: firstly, that we are about to leave that desperately dull town of Mannheim; and, secondly, it teaches us that Miss Harriette Folgate is carved out of that stuff of which old





maids are made. Such precocity in a girl, and such weighing of chances, would be abnormal, if the young lady were destined by Providence to fulfil the duties of wife and mother, for which she was sent into the world, but it is self-evident, from her hints and speculations, that she was born to die a spinster. She had none of that openness of heart which distinguished the other members of the family, every move she made was premeditated: she had no interchange of confidences with her sisters, and though she greedily accepted the charge of any of their venial secrets, she never put herself in their power by dangerous confessions.

Altogether, Harriette was not an agreeable character: but that, I am sorry to say, I cannot help: I am only the narrator of a sad story, and dare not alter the attributes of my characters, even though I run the risk of disgusting my readers by giving them the harsh presentment of the truth.





Poor little Alley by this time had begun to find out what the strange fluttering of her heart betokened, whenever she found herself tête-à-tête with Herbert, and the discovery caused her very strange and mingled sensations. At first she strove to struggle against the feeling it seemed to her dreadful to be





the rival of her sister; and then, again, she had a shrewd suspicion that Herbert did not return her love. And yet he was so cordial with her, so affectionate in his manner: ever at her service, ever ready to assist her in her difficulties, but then-was n't he just the same with Blanche? He had never squeezed her hand, and did not speak in a low voice to her, as she watched him do with Blanche: and yet, for all that, Alley felt instinctively that Herbert did not love Blanche. He admired her, there was no doubt he was glad to be in her society: but there was no intercommunion of hearts between them: none of that perfect confidence which ought to exist between lovers.



:





But perhaps Alley thought, as she turned restlessly on her couch, their position might explain this: Herbert would not venture to address Blanche in the presence of her family, as he might have done solus cum solâ: and Alley, acting on the principle that all is fair in love and war, determined on taking advantage of her private interviews with Herbert to precipitate matters.

Very pretty, all this plot and counterplot, I must confess; and poor Blanche will have to be very careful if she intend to secure Herbert for herself. But that is the question; is she playing with him to keep her hand in, and perfectly prepared to throw him over when a proper parti presented himself? Time will solve this as well as several other mysteries.

This much, however, I may add en passant: whatever might be the young ladies' feelings toward Herbert, he was not inclined to reciprocate, to use a chaste Americanism: for his heart was fully occupied by another person,





whom it is high time for me to introduce upon the stage. But she will play much too imporant a part in my history to be dragged in at the fag end of a chapter.





:



THE heroine of my tale, ladies and gentlemen, when I first introduce her to you was nothing more or less than a waiting-maid to the Misses Folgate. And yet I am wrong in my definition for she was something more,she was the sworn friend and ally of Alice, though her elder by three years. How this came about was simple enough: Jessie was the daughter of one of Sir Norton's tenants, and her extraordinary beauty, even as a child, had attracted Lady Folgate's eye. Thinking



VOL. I.





her attractions of too rare a quality to be wasted on the vulgar herd, and obedient to that natural law which makes us like to have pretty faces around us, her Ladyship had offered Jessie a situation, which the maiden, nothing loth, had accepted, and for the whole time of the continental exodus she had accompanied the family in its peregrinations.

It was natural enough that Alice should select Jessie as her confidante: for she felt no attraction toward her sisters, who she intuitively knew were too worldly to comprehend her, while Jessie presented herself as a thorough child of nature. Gradually it had grown into a habit for Alice to talk over with the girl all the bright romances she conjured up of the future, and Jessie was only too glad to do her part in the inventive department. Many an hour did they spend together in Alice's cozy bed-room, idealizing, if I may use the term, the handsome young man who was to be Alley's partner through life, and Jessie gradually im





bibed notions not at all in unison with the lot in life she appeared destined to fill.

As she sat by her young mistress' side, and stole furtive glances at the mirror, her eye told her that she too was beautiful: why then should she despair of obtaining a handsome bridegroom? That he would be rich was the



:



necessary corollary for no girl yet drew a mental picture of a handsome young man without endowing him with all the accessories required to make life a terrestrial paradise.

And, in truth, Jessie was beautiful enough to justify such day-dreams, and if mere charms were sufficient to secure a richly-endowed husband, Jessie would have been meet companion for a lord. Everything about her was perfect you could not pick out one particular feature, and say what a magnificent arm or eye, but the inextinguishable impression she produced was that of a lovely girl.

It is true that Lady Folgate did much to enhance the effect Jessie produced: for she





dressed her expensively and well, while the young woman spared no pains to attract. Lady Folgate, in short, was proud of the girl, just as she might have been of a bijou poodle, or a rare macaw, as contributing something to her own personal aggrandizement, and any praise bestowed on her beauty flattered the lady extremely.

Of course, neither Blanche the magnificent, nor Harriette, could see anything extraordinary about the chit: she was very well, they said, for a lady's-maid: but they were really surprised at mamma putting such thoughts in her head the girl would end by forgetting her position, and get herself into trouble; but they washed their hands of it entirely. And they evinced their feelings by treating Jessie with considerable harshness whenever they found opportunity, which Jessie accepted with the stoicism of a martyr, although the quick flush of scorn and anger which flitted across her features betrayed a world of sup





pressed passion, which, however, the young ladies were far too lofty to notice.

"My dear Miss Alice," said Jessie one



? You



evening, "what is the matter with you have seemed so reserved for the last few evenings; surely you are not angry with your Jessie? Tell me what it is, in what I can assist you-you know that I would lay down my life to serve you. Have your sisters

grieved you, or is it some secret you refuse to

impart to your humble friend?

humble friend? Oh! do tell

me what weighs on your heart. I am sure I can suggest something to relieve your misery."

"Oh! it's nothing, nothing at all, Jessie! Foolish girl, to think that I should have any secret from you." And then, with a sudden out-burst of grief, Alley buried her face in her hands, and sobbed forth, "Oh! how unhappy I am !'





"What a strange child you are; first, you say it's nothing, and then you sob as if your poor little heart was going to break. Oh! no,





I am sure there is some mystery here, which you would keep concealed from me; well, Miss Alice, of course you are at liberty to do so, though I thought that the devotion I have always shown you would be sufficient guarantee that I would betray none of your secrets. But I see how it is: some one else has taken my place, and poor Jessie is to be forgotten."

And the fair waiting-maid turned her face unto the wall and wept, carefully wiping her eyes the while with the corner of her white muslin apron. Such a mute appeal as this was sure to have an immediate effect on Alley's gentle, guileless heart.





Oh, Jessie," she said, "you are most unkind to me. You know I have never yet kept a secret from you, and if I have now," she added, with a beautiful blush, "it is only because it concerned another person, but he don't love me one bit, I'm sure he does n't."

Jessie gave an almost imperceptible lift to her





eye-brows, but said not a word.



Now that the



fount had begun to flow, she knew that no effort on her part was required. Nor was she mistaken, for Alley went on at once to lay bare all her heart-secrets and doubts, to which Jessie listened with considerable inward amusement.

“Oh! Jessie, I really did think that Herbert-Mr Leigh, I mean,-was beginning to love me a little bit. I am sure I love him dearly, and he has been so kind to me lately, and so affectionate, I might say, that I began to hope. But to-night,-oh! dear me, what a wretched: girl I am."

And here the poor child gave way to such a violent fit of crying, that Jessie for awhile feared an attack of hysteria. However, the infallible specific, Eau de Cologne poured on a lump of sugar, gradually restored her, and Alley was enabled to continue her confessions.

"Oh, Jessie, I did really dream of happiness with him, he is so handsome and so noble, I would be proud of such a husband.





But he will never be mine, I feel sure of that; only this very evening I was sitting in the arbour, repeating my German lesson, to be ready for that odious Miss Schwab, when he came down the centre walk with my sister, with Blanche. He was talking with her in a low voice, and Blanche was blushing; I could see that plainly enough,--and trying to refuse some request he had made her,—as if that were possible, for is he not born to command? denly he snatched from her hand a bouquet she held, and she made no effort at resistance. He kissed it passionately, and buried it in his bosom, while Blanche gazed on him with looks that betrayed her admiration. But I cannot blame her, how could she help loving such a noble young man? She has gained the prize, and I am wretched for life.”



Sud



"My poor dear Miss Alice," the faithful soubrette said, "I truly feel sorry for you; to know that you have a rival, and a successful one too, in your own sister, is really pitiable. But





do not be down-hearted; he is probably dazzled with Miss Blanche's beauty, as might be expected, but I do not think she will hold him long; you know how fond she is of flattery, and how coolly she has turned off young men before now who vowed the most passionate adoration for her, and it will be the case again here, believe me."





Oh, if I could believe you, I might be happy again, Jessie; but it is impossible for her to feel any affection for Herbert and let him go again."

"Well, well, Miss Alice, do not give way to sorrow; I will watch them for your sake, and see how matters really stand, and I warrant things will not turn out so badly as you anticipate. But it is time for you to go to bed; or, what with crying and sleeplessness, you will make a regular object of yourself, and Sir Norton will be wondering to-morrow what has become of his pet's roses. Good night, and God bless you, Miss Alice; all will be well yet."





And while little Alice is sobbing herself to sleep, and alternating between hope and fear, let us pay a visit to an adjacent room and see how the elegant Harriette has been employing herself. She occupied the next apartment to poor Alley, and a door had formerly communicated between the two rooms, which, however, had been blocked up. But being, like all continental doors, a very bad fit, it certainly allowed every word to be heard that was uttered in Alice's apartment. Not that Harriette conde scended to listen; as a well-bred young lady, she would have scorned the action, but somehow or other she could not help hearing every word, as she lay comfortably nestled on the sofa which was placed along the doorway.

Much amused had she been by the confidences she had heard from time to time, but the conversation on this evening had aroused her attention and confirmed her opinion as to the footing which the tutor had established





in the family. All this she determined should go straightway to my Lady's ears, although she made up her mind not to spoil sport. Far from it, she rather enjoyed the embroglio, which must sooner or later break out, and determined to do her share in setting her sisters by the ears.

And having settled this comfortably in her mind, she too retired to rest, and slept not a whit the less soundly because she was plotting against the happiness of her sisters.

And Jessie? did she too lay herself on her couch with a sincere wish to advance the views of her young mistress? I am sorry to say that the soubrette was also greatly agitated by the confession made her; it seemed, in fact, as if Herbert had come expressly to Mannheim to cause confusion among Sir Norton's femininities. Jessie had long admired the young man, and sought opportunity to let him know he need not sigh in vain if he turned the light of his





countenance upon her; but he might have been the Apollo Belvidere, so little effect did her charms have upon him.

Jessie was decidedly ambitious; she considered that she ought to marry a gentleman, and, after all, there was no great difference of social rank between her and Herbert. They were both salaried officials, her heart whispered her, and she was as well bred, ay, and as well educated, as her young mistresses. She had devoted hour on hour to the improvement of her mind, and although she had no opportunity of learning music she sung with great natural taste. She spoke French and German fluently, and had so carefully studied the manners of the young ladies that she felt confident she could pass muster in any drawing-room, where her antecedents were not known. Hence she had marked Herbert down as her prey, and it would not be her fault if he escaped the snare.

Before long, Herbert found himself con





stantly coming across the lady's-maid; she was ever busied in that part of the house where the studies went on, and cast Parthian glances as she hurried past. At first Herbert paid but slight attention, but gradually his curiosity was piqued: he could not be ever seeing this lovely creature without feeling attracted toward her, and somehow or other he got the flattering idea into his head that the girl was growing fond of him. It is only the first step that counts; and so Herbert began to expect to see the pretty waitingmaid every day, and take opportunity of exchanging a word or two with her, when no one was in the way.

Jessie, when she had produced the desired effect, altered her tactics, and for three whole days did not make her appearance. Herbert began to feel excited; it had grown into a regular thing with him to hold converse sweet with Jessie, and he felt as if he had lost some. thing by her absence. At length, when he had





not seen her for a week, he began to fancy that he must be in love with her, so much did he long to see her again, and I am sadly afraid that poor Alley was rendered more and more wretched by the slight attention he paid to her. Still, it was some satisfaction to find that he held equally aloof from Blanche; and the young beauty pouted most adorably at this unlooked-for defection of her charming chevalier.

Jessie, of course, learned the true state of the case from Alice, and chuckled inwardly at the success of her scheme. She thought that

she would strike while the iron was hot, and,



.



in consequence, the next day Herbert was delighted at meeting her again, quite by accident, in the corridor. In beautiful confusion, she dropped the knitting needles she held in her hand Herbert stooped simultaneously with her to pick them up, and their heads came in contact. Of course Herbert was forced to console her; he threw his arms



:





round her to support her, for she seemed ready to faint, and he gazed passionately on her lovely face, as she looked up at him, and blushed and smiled in turn. Suddenly, he pressed his lips on her forehead and imprinted a passionate kiss, which made the girl frown and draw herself from his arms, with a look of mingled indignation and sorrow.

Forgive me, my darling child," he whispered, "I did not wish to offend you, but how could I resist such an exquisite temptation? but it was your own fault for being so bewitchingly beautiful. Mortal man could not resist such a glorious opportunity."

"Oh! Mr Herbert, what would Miss Blanche say, were she to know it ?"

"Miss Blanche!" Herbert replied with an indignant toss of his head, "do you fancy, Jessie, that I could love such a girl as her, when you are her rival for my heart? No, Jessie, believe me, I love you too sincerely to have any thoughts of another woman."





"Oh! if I dared but to believe you! you would not deceive me, though, I am sure. And yet, how could I expect that a gentleman like you would condescend to a poor girl like myself? I cannot be so happy, I am afraid."

"Hush, dearest Jessie, some one is coming, —I hear Harriette's stealthy tread. She must not see us together. Meet me to-night on the Neckar bridge, and I will tell you more. Good bye, dearest."

And Jessie glided away, delighted at the success of her stratagem, and triumphing in the notion that she had cut both her young mistresses out with the handsome young tutor. And Herbert! did he really feel that passion he had feigned so well? To tell the truth, he did not exactly know what his feelings were; up to the present, he had not got beyond that sensuous feeling which men are apt to generate on the aspect of a beauteous woman, before association and intercommunion of hearts has





given birth to that holy love which should be the aim of our existence.

All other things being equal, he would not have hesitated for a moment between Jessie and Blanche; but the latter had a large fortune, and he was already beginning to appreciate money and position at their true worldly value. Sir Norton had given him every encouragement; he knew that the old gentleman would throw no obstacle in the way, if he openly avowed his love for Blanche-but he could not make up his mind to such a step, if it were to cost him all his hopes about Jessie. He was in a sadly divided state of mind, and his pupils were the sufferers in consequence.

Had Herbert been a callous roué, holding the opinion that woman is only sent into the world to be the prey of a stronger animal, and thrown off when passion has yielded to satiety, such a dilemma would have been very easy of solution; but, being a tolerably honest and moral young man as the world goes, he





would have been horrified at the thought of



such an act of treachery.



If a crisis had ar



rived, and he had been compelled to make choice between the mistress and the maid, he would, probably, have thrown caution to the winds, and plighted his troth ungrudgingly to Jessie; but this crisis had not yet come, and he resolved the difficulty by temporizing.

Needless for me to describe all the meetings Herbert and Jessie had; and how he drew in fresh draughts of love with every interview. Over the girl, too, a great change had burst: she loved him now with her whole heart, all calculation was forgotten, and she would have

made any sacrifice if she

secure him to her for ever.



thought it would

But no temptation



was thrown in her way: Herbert loved her too dearly to injure her, and, so long as he could not make up his mind to the decisive plunge, he could not and would not act a villain's part toward her. Perhaps, too, her confidence in him was her best safeguard: how could he take advan





tage of the beautiful simplicity with which she left her fate in his hands, and trusted so im

plicitly to the repeated promises he made her? She lived in an Elysium of her own creating, and Herbert was not the man to introduce the serpent into her Paradise.

But how was it to end? as the poet says,

Oh dass Sie ewig grüne bliebe,

Die schöne Zeit der jungen Liebe!





but it cannot be so: the time will come when an ultimatum must be arrived at; and such was the case with Herbert. Many and many an anxious hour he spent, in thinking over his liaison with Jessie: prudence bade him break it off at once, ere worse befel them, and each time he met her the more impossible he felt it to part from her. Yet, he could not go on in this way he must decide between her and Blanche, who was more fond of him now than ever, when the course of her love appeared to run less smooth. At length, like a coward, he determined on procastinating until their arrival





at Wiesbaden, whither it was decided they were soon to depart for the summer months.

All the while poor Alley was suffering tor

tures love had carried her with one bound



:



At



from girlhood into womanhood, and the devouring flame was preying at her vitals. times she strove to extinguish it: she felt that she was yielding to an unrequited passion, but one glance at Herbert dispelled all her resolutions. But what could she do? how could she gain a heart which appeared the property of another? But, was it so? did he really love Blanche with his whole heart? At times she fancied so, it must be that he meant to propose for Blanche: he sat by her side for hours, talking in that suppressed tone which Alice had learned to regard as a dangerous symptom,—and then again, for days he would appear to shun her. What could it mean? could it be that Herbert felt that there was a gulf between him and Blanche, and that he obeyed the dictates of prudence, telling him





that it would be hopeless for him to aspire to the hand of the rich heiress?

But it could not be that: Sir Norton threw every opportunity in his way: and perhaps the severest pang of jealousy Alley ever felt was when Sir Norton proposed that Blanche and Herbert should accompany him on his daily ride. Worse too, when Sir Norton would tell at the dinner table how his sturdy cob had been out-paced by the fiery steeds the young couple rode, and how he had only come up with them an hour after, when he found them riding side by side and waiting for his arrival, to start off again in a mad burst. She almost began to hate her father, poor child, for throwing such opportunities in Herbert's way.

Nor did Jessie at all admire the present prospect of affairs: although she thought it quite right that her Herbert should dissemble his love, she did not at all appreciate that moral kicking down-stairs by which he strove to conceal it. But, how was she to bind the





lover whom inclination and interest drew different ways? That he loved her sincerely she had not the slightest doubt, but what was to be the end of it all? She had tried in vain to draw from him some déclaration that he would marry her, and she was ready to wait an indefinite period, so long as she felt certain he was all her own; but he ever generalized when that ticklish subject was alluded to by her, and bade her wait and hope for better times. He was in no position to maintain a wife, and she could not expect him to expose her to certain misery. How could she persuade him that she was ready to share a crust with him, so long as he devoted himself entirely to her, and did not go out riding with Miss Blanche, whom Jessie regarded with a most jaundiced eye ?

Jessie was altogether a strange creature: she had no troublesome moral principles to keep her in check, and she would have fallen a ready victim to any less honourable man than Her





bert. Her moral training had been sadly deficient; the period of her life when she began to feel that she was a woman had been spent in the Hotels of the Continent, and she had not yielded to temptation from the simple fact that her feelings had not yet been allied against her judgment. In fact, her ambition had hitherto kept her straight: though I doubt not that, if a regular siege had been laid to her heart, she would have added another to that numerous list of which foreign couriers are apt to make a boast. But, now that she was really in love, and that the object of her affection treated her with reverence, she was cased in triple steel, and there was little prospect that she would ever appear as co-respondent in the Divorce Court.

Not that I would have it supposed that Jessie was naturally vicious: her faults were the result of indifference, and her mind had hitherto lain fallow. She knew not of what

sacrifices she was capable, and she possessed





a vein of generous impulses. All that she required was kind treatment, and she would have crouched at Herbert's feet, like a welltrained spaniel, but he must not trifle with her. She had, lurking unconsciously in her heart, a demoniacal passion for revenge, and was prepared to go any lengths to requite any injury done her. Hitherto, however, her qualities, good and bad, had remained undeveloped : she had played a purely passive part in life, but her feelings were being slowly aroused into action by Herbert's vacillation. To him it was left to mould her into an angel or a demon for love and vengeance are more closely allied than our reverend instructors would like to concede.



:



I regret that the purpose of my story has compelled me to make this psychological study of my heroine, for I feel that it must have lowered her considerably in my reader's opinion. But I have one and a most sufficient apology to make for her: and that is





the fact that she was a woman.



And if the



novelist of the present day is required to deal with people as they are, rather than as what they ought to be, I hold myself absolved for laying bare the character of a girl, whom circumstances over which she had but slight control forced into the position of a heroine.





CHAPTER IV.



WIESBADEN.



THERE are few continental watering-places so well known to the travelling English as the capital of the little Duchy of Nassau. From. the commencement of the Rhine season an uninterrupted succession of tourists flocks in and fills the hotels to repletion. Even the space beneath the billiard-table is regarded as an elegant four-poster, and fabulous sums are handed over to the hotel-keepers, which make them rub their hands with glee, and grow most abominably saucy and independent.

I must confess, however, they do not quite





come up to my ideal of Friend Destuniano of the Perote Hotel de l'Europe, on whom once waiting to pay my account, I found shovelling up sovereigns from the floor with a garden spade, and consigning them to the safe keeping of a potato sack. It must be borne in mind, though, that this crop ended with the Crimean war, while the hotel-keepers of Wiesbaden are still carrying on their razzia.

If I were asked, honestly, to confess what attraction Wiesbaden holds out to the traveller, I am afraid I should have to reply by a negation. In the first place, the town is stiflingly hot and close; not only is it situated in the hollow at the foot of the Taunus, where the sun pours down infuriately upon your head, but the very pavement on which you walk is rendered redhot by the almost boiling water passing away beneath it from the Koch-brunnen. Terribly suggestive is it of that story in Sandford and Merton of the gouty gentleman who is cured





as the bears are taught to dance, by having the floor heated beneath him.

Apart from the heat and the musquitoes, I hardly know anything that specially recommends Wiesbaden to your notice; the forest, it is true, affords a pleasing shade, but you have to trudge miles ere you reach it, and when you have selected a retired spot, where you would like to compose a sonnet or yourself to sleep, you will probably be routed by a fiercelooking stag, who, insulted by your invasion of his domain, truculently butts at you with his long horns, and forces you into profuse perspiration, as you dodge round the trees to escape him.

Wiesbaden, too, boasts another special eyesore and rock of offence, in the Platte, a square white-washed château on the top of the hill, visible from every point of the compass, and which persists in staring you out of countenance, wherever you may bend your steps. After a while, it becomes an utter





:



nuisance, a very incarnated ghost which haunts you in your dreams, and is the first object that salutes you as you open your jealousies to get rid of the night-mare. At length you desperately resolve on bearding the brute and after toiling for six or seven miles through the forest, you find yourself before a building a thousand-fold more ugly than it had ever appeared in your dreams. You see a hunting salon, entirely decorated with stags' horns, and by an intense effort mount the roof to enjoy the view, which is certainly very fine, embracing the Rhine Valley for an enormous distance-and then you go home again, parched with thirst, for the Duke of Nassau is not so liberal as his brother of Baden, and declines converting his palaces into houses of call.

But although Wiesbaden appears to me ineffably dull, and as only one stage superior to a model prison, there is no reason why all my countrymen should be of the same opinion. Indeed, they practically contradict me, for if





you go there any given summer, it will seem to you as if Cockneydom had moved across the water en bloc. You almost expect to see my Lord Mayor's state carriage standing at the hotel of the Four Seasons (a caravansaraï, by the way, as big as the Mansion House), or receive an invitation to meet Her Majesty's Ministers at a feast in the Egyptian Hall. Thus, when Sir Norton, with his family, took up his quarters in the Hotel de Nassau, and my delightful old friend Götz was doing all in his power to make them comfortable, he soon found himself surrounded by a swarm of familiar faces. Here were Sir Thomas Bucklersbury and his family, Mr Alderman Bury and his two charming daughters, all the Dowgate Hills and their lot--in short, a delightful party, ready made to join with him in excursions and be jolly, which was all Sir Norton wanted.

But this was by no means what her Ladyship desired: her principal object in coming to Wiesbaden was to form some grand acquaint





ances, for she knew by experience that young lords were generally very affable to pretty





girls on the Continent, and she had an idea that Blanche would get a husband far superior to that odious young tutor. She had already undergone a serious skirmish with her husband on this difficult subject, and had insisted in very strong language on his keeping Blanche apart from Herbert, but Sir Norton, like a sturdy and honest Briton, had silenced her by saying that his girl should marry whom she pleased if he were a beggar, so long as there was nothing against his character, he would not strive to thwart her wishes. Herbert possessed all the qualities he desired in a son-inlaw, and he only hoped that he and his "gal" would buckle to. If so, he would settle £30,000 upon her, and not feel the loss.

The lady had no resource but temporizing. Luckily she met with an admirable ally at the moment when she felt most in despair. The Rev. O'Flarty Brien arrived at Wiesbaden with





a party of young men supposed to be reading during the "Long," and her Ladyship had ample materials at her command.

Mr Brien, a distant cousin of her Ladyship, was one of the most successful “private coaches" Oxford ever boasted. Not that his men distinguished themselves by taking high classes, or displaying any super-eminent talent; but his reading party was always full. In consequence, Mr Brien was extremely particular as to those whom he allowed to join him, and it was quite an anxious time in the University until it was arranged who were to form Mr Brien's party. His terms were extremely high, and he was enabled gradually to limit his members, so that, at the time when we form his acquaintance, he had only six young gentlemen to whom he acted in loco parentis.

It was not that Mr Brien possessed any personal recommendations which induced the young men to run after him; on the contrary,





he was a very common-place looking man, with red hair, and brawny limbs, worthy a Bath chairman. But Mr Brien had a fascinating way about him that effected wonders. For instance, he would address his pupils as follows, prior to their annual emigration, as they were enjoying their last meal at Jubber's : "My dear young friends,-I am anxious to lay down, before we start, the rules which should bind our little company during our absence on the Continent. Having been a young man myself, I am well aware that youth requires hours of relaxation, and far be it from me to restrict you in any manner. You will be at perfect liberty, then, to do exactly as you please: to those who are inclined to read, I shall be always ready to devote my time, while the others will have every opportunity to enjoy the beauties of nature."

After the noisy cheers with which this cons fession of principles was greeted had in some





measure subsided, Mr Brien would gently request silence, and proceed as follows:

"There is one stipulation, my dear young friends, which I must ask from you, as due to my own character. You must all promise me that whatever excesses you may fall intoand I am well aware that youth is prone to error-you will manage so that no rumour of them reaches my ears, or compels me to take official notice of them. In such a case the harmony, which I trust will subsist among us would be irrevocably broken, and our sojourning together rendered most unpleasant. I feel sure you will admit the justice of my proviso, and so, now that we have said our say, and know the terms on which we are to stand to each other, suppose we have another bottle of Chambertin, and drink 'Success to our tour!'

It is not surprising that Mr Brien should always have a number of men willing to accompany him on such facile terms, for,





happily, there are not many travelling tutors like him. Still he can hardly be blamed: nature had intended him for a dragoon, circumstances had forced him into a gown, and he had no alternative but to try and cast his line in pleasant places. The system he pursued suited his purpose admirably, and being a man of large appetites, in every sense of the term, he could not consent to hide himself in a modest village, and mortify his flesh on some sixty pounds a-year.

Sweet was the smile with which Lady Folgate greeted her cousin when she met him walking behind the Kursaal, with his "tail at his heels. She was well aware that Mr Brien was a fashionable tutor, and generally had young men of birth and fortune at his disposal, and, now that she wished to carry out her designs with reference to Blanche, it seemed as if Providence had interposed in a most propitious manner. Mr Brien, on his side, was not the man to meet her advances at





less than half-way, for, as the wife of the rich City Merchant, she deserved to be courted; so, before long, the parties had coalesced, and while Lady Folgate had seized Brien's arm, and was beginning to pump him as to the eligibility of his pupils, the young men, nothing unwilling, were trying to get up a flirtation with the girls.

Before long, three of the young men voted the affair slow, and glided away to the Restaurant, but the other three kept their ground; the Honourable Mauleverer Stubbs devoting his inanities to Blanche, Bertie Dymoke striving to make Harriette talk, while poor little Alice had fallen to the lot of Harry. Rutherford, who was excessively piqued by the obstinacy with which she refused to reply to his most charming sallies.

Great was Lady Folgate's pleasure at learning that an Honourable was of the party, and she inwardly resolved to lay herself out to fascinate him. With this view she soon joined him





and Blanche, and cast about for some subject which might interest them in common. Hard was the task she had set herself, however, for never was there such a nonentity as the Honourable Mauleverer; aw-he didn't care for shooting, he was n't fond of widing, as for fishing it was wery slow, but, as for getting out of him what he did like, you might as well have cross-examined the young Memnon in the British Museum. So much, however, Lady Folgate drew out of him, he had not any engagement for that evening, and, aw-wale-yase, he would do himself the honour of calling at the Hotel de Nassau.

Just as Lady Folgate was smilingly bowing her adieu, who should come up but that abo minable tutor? What made Blanche blush and turn away from him? But the Lady was interrupted by a hasty shout from Dymoke.

What, Leigh, old fellow, who'd have thought of seeing you here? I fancied you were buried in some curacy down in Cornwall,





as I never heard from you. Well, now I've got you, I've a thousand things to say to you, so come along to the Hotel;-good afternoon, ladies." And the impetuous young man seized Leigh by the arm, and would have dragged him away, had he not resisted violently.

"My dear Bertie," he said, laughingly, you are, I see, just the same wild fellow as when we used to play football at Shrewsbury. I would gladly come with you, but I have a special engagement: I am going to walk with Sir Norton to Sonnenburg, and he asked me to beg Miss Folgate to accompany us." Then turning to Blanche, he said, with a most polite bow, "Allow me to offer you my arm, Sir Norton is waiting for us at the reading-room."

And Miss Blanche took his arm and sailed away, before the Honourable could do more than stammer forth an aw-aw.

Now, this was wormwood to her Ladyship, to have her daughter seen in public taking a tutor's arm, and walk with him along the





garden, oh! it was too bad of that stupid Sir Norton, and then, to make it worse, Mr Dymoke burst into a most fervid laudation of Herbert, all of which Alice swallowed with greedy ears.

"He's the finest fellow in the world, I declare, and I have reason to praise him, for he saved my life at Shrewsbury, when I was nearly drowned by my boat upsetting. He jumped in after me and brought me ashore, although for a time people thought it was all over with both of us; there was a freshet just then, and Herbert found great difficulty in making head against it, burthened as he was by my weight."

I wonder why it was that silent Alice so suddenly found her tongue, and began chattering away to Bertie about Shrewsbury and school days? Before long they appeared the best friends in the world, and Alice listened with delight to all the anecdotes the good. hearted Dymoke told her about Herbert. So





engaged was she that she hardly remembered that he was now walking by the side of Blanche.

As for poor Mr Stubbs, he grew more silent than ever, and even good-natured Lady Folgate gave him up in despair; so she commenced a long gossip with Mr Rutherford, in which she hoped to fish out something satisfactory as to the position and prospects of his silent friend. What she heard was certainly satisfactory; he would be in every respect a most eligible husband for Blanche, and as she saw that in order to succeed he must be courted, she determined on laying herself out to please him, and gradually draw him to Blanche's side, until habit began to make him regard her as a necessary companion. With Blanche herself she trusted to have no difficulty; she firmly believed that her daughter was only carrying on a flirtation with the young secretary faute de mieux, and, now that other young men presented themselves, she would let him down gradually.





The appearance of Sir Norton and the young couple at the other end of the walk reminded her Ladyship, however, that the dinner hour was drawing on apace; so, after a very hearty shake-hands with the young men, and a renewal of her invitation, she gathered her girls around her, and fluttered off to dress.

When Herbert joined the young men in the evening at the Kursaal, Dymoke teazed him tremendously, as may be supposed, about his attention to the ladies, which made him quite forget old friends; but Herbert was in no humour for jesting, for he felt that a crisis was approaching, and he could not for the life of him make up his mind what to do. Prudence suggested that he should marry Blanche, while inclination prompted him to keep up his connexion with Jessie; in a word, his besetting sin of indecision was beginning to find him out,

Sir Norton had on this morning spoken so openly to him, as to leave him no doubt that there would be no objection on the father's





part to his marrying Blanche, and her beauty and her fortune were certainly a great temptation. And, yet, on the other hand, Jessie was more beautiful, but she had no money. What was he to do? If he had but a friend to consult and advise with-but he could not bear to expose his stupidity to any one. A man of the world would have ridiculed any hesitation, and easily have solved the question, but in a way to which Herbert could not make up his mind. In short, he was in a perfect maze, and was beginning bitterly to repent the consequences of his folly.

But with two merry fellows tormenting him, Herbert could not long keep his mind fixed upon one point, and he was glad of any excuse for procrastination. Hence he willingly accepted an invitation to supper with Dymoke, and before long they were seated in the gailydecorated Restaurant of the Kursaal, committing a dire offence against the British gamelaws, by eating partridges in July.





"And so, old fellow," said Dymoke, "you 're a regular spoiled child of fortunewith three pretty girls to flirt with and nothing to do, you are to be envied!"

Well, to tell you the truth, Bertie, although you may imagine me a happy fellow, I am the most pitiable dog alive."





Ah, stuff, man-what, your mistress is unkind ?-but that can't be, I noticed the affectionate way Miss Blanche hung on your arm this afternoon-she will not long hesitate



if



you pluck up a spirit. You say too the paternity appears agreeable, then why should you hesitate? I should decidedly like to be in your place. I should not shilly-shally long, but take the goods the gods provide us in a very satisfied mood."

Herbert shook his head very dolefully.





Come, man, don't look so moonstruck,"

his tormentor went on, "a good-looking young

fellow like you has no excuse for not taking

fortune at the rebound. Why, such a mar





riage would be the making of you. But, come, let us take a glance round the gambling rooms; there's the band striking up, and I have no doubt we shall see the Rev O'Flarty punting when he fancies nobody is watching him."

But Herbert pleaded an engagement; he knew that Jessie was anxiously waiting for him, and he had promised to meet her. She was growing annoyed at the suspense, and, from what he knew of her character, he feared some sudden explosion, which would ruin all his hopes. At times he almost wished it would come, for anything would be preferable to his present miserable state; but yet, on the other hand, he did not like to lose a pretty girl with a large fortune.





Very well, then; but look here, old fellow," Bertie went on, “to-morrow we're all going to hear the Austrian band play at Mayence, promise to join us, and I'll let you off for the present."

Glad to escape, Herbert pledged his word





and hurried off to Jessie, who had been impatiently waiting for him nearly half an hour. A dark cloud was on her brow when he joined her, and her feelings of jealousy were aroused. She knew what Sir Norton designed with regard to her young mistress, and thought it high time to pin her vacillating lover. Alternate storms and showers, 'therefore, greeted the fainéant, and when she had got him into a proper state of malleability she opened her batteries.

"It is of no use, Mr Herbert, your asserting your love for me, when you act as you are now doing. You are always dangling after Blanche, and yet you pretend to me that you do so for fear of your attentions to me being noticed. But you forget my feelings, and how I must suffer when I think that the man who has plighted his troth to me, and promised so faithfully to marry me [oh, Jessie, Jessie, you know he has done nothing of the sort] should be, for aught I know, repeating the same vows





to another. But I have made up my



mind-you



must either give me some security that you will keep your word, or all must end between



us.'



Oh, Herbert, soft fool that you are, why don't you take her at her word, and break through this entanglement while there is yet time? But your fatal indecision pursues you; you love the girl, as well as your nature will allow you to love anybody, and your selfishness will not endure the idea of her belonging to another. The very thought of losing her unmans you, and as you gaze in her tearswollen eyes, you feel that you could run any risk, so that you may call her yours alone.

Prudence was cast to the winds, as the impetuous young man burst forth into a passionate avowal of his love, to which Jessie listened stoically. She was playing for a great stake, and though at times she felt she was paving a way of unhappiness for both, she





could not let her prey slip. Hence the little



witch proceeded.



"I wish I could believe you, Mr Herbert, but I cannot. I never will consent to see you again until you give me a promise of marriage in writing. Then I shall feel comforted, and begin to be convinced of my future happiness. No matter how long we may have to wait, I will do so willingly for your sake; brighter times are in store for us, I feel assured, and I will endure all in the blessed remembrance

that I shall one day call you my own.'





Fool! fool! why do you listen to the syren? why not flee from her snares, ere a worse thing befal thee? But no, Herbert was a thing of impulse, the moment was all in all with him; and like a madman he promised Jessie all she wanted, and planted on her blushing brow the kiss of betrothal.

So all was over! Herbert Leigh had bound himself to a life of wretchedness, linked to a girl who, he felt, could not render him happy,





and who would prevent his ambitious dreams attaining their fruition. Giving hostages to fortune in the shape of a wife and family, his career was over ere it had begun; all that was left him now was a prospect of a curacy and respectable starvation, and he threw from him the position which Blanche and her fortune would have ensured him. Fool, triple fool! to let a woman's tears and wiles gain the victory.

But as he had made his bed, so he must lie on it; Jessie had his promise, and there was no help for it. He quitted her almost with loathing he could have cut off his right hand as he signed the promise of marriage, which he drew up in his lodgings, and handed to the triumphant girl—and then the happy betrothed felt as if he could have hanged himself out of spite.

Still there was one consolation, Jessie was a lovely girl, and educated far above her social rank; she would make him an excellent wife,





and perhaps it was all for the best. Still, that did not excuse him for drinking deeply, as he did, even though each glass rendered the future more radiant. To a casual observer, it would have seemed as if he were trying to drown sorrow. Not he! glass after glass of brandy he swallowed with Jessie's name on his lips, and then he staggered off to bed-to dream of Blanche and a house in Belgravia. Most happy young man!





CHAPTER V.



A GAME OF ECARTÉ.



GOLDEN Mayence! fairest of all German towns! what an exquisite panorama does the first sight of thee offer to the expectant traveller! On the right bank of the Father Rhine glistens the dark mountain-range of the Taunus, and the Feldberg and the Altkönig raise their forest-clad summits among the clouds. Looking up the Maine, we perceive the town of Odenwald, which seems to bathe its base in the river. Before us lies the sea of houses, high above which rise the red towers of the cathedral, with their galleries and





statues. Never was a more beautiful prospect gazed on than that which greeted our hero, as he crossed the bridge of boats on a lovely summer afternoon, and wended his way toward the "Anlagen," where he had promised to meet Dymoke.



:



But, once within the town, and the illusion disappears the streets are narrow and stifling, exhaling an ancient and fish-like smell:' while the frowning fortalice, seeming to enclose the town in a web of iron, makes one feel uncomfortable, despite the smiling sun overhead. At every corner soldiers are lounging about; white-coated Austrians, blue uniformed Prussians, are flirting with the market girls or gazing with watery mouths at the splendid show of fruit while the measured tramp of the patrols, as they stump along to relieve guard, form a disharmonious accompaniment to the glorious serenity of nature.



:



At every angle, a black muzzled cannon stares you in the face: ominous-looking powder





magazines induce you to hurry along for fear they might explode, while at every drawbridge your progress is impeded by market-carts and droschkis, which block up the road, while the soldiers are eagerly seeking an opportunity to stop them and so secure a fine. It seems a profanation that, in a city where Frauenlob was borne to the grave by his mourning countrywomen, who bedewed his bier with the noblest wine, grim-visaged war should now hold its iron rule-that, where a Gutenberg gave us the blessings of the printing press, the instruments by which despots strive to suppress thought should now be housed.

The grounds in which the Austrian and Prussian bands perform alternately, situated just opposite the mouth of the Main, at a considerable elevation, allow a superb panorama to be enjoyed thence. Very gay too is the company assembled from all parts of the world to listen to the music, although the English are the most strongly represented.





After our poor regimental bands it is a treat to hear some hundred and twenty first-rate musicians performing the music of Mozart and Beethoven.

Here, Herbert found his friends amusing themselves in speculating on the professions and trades of the portion of the audience representing the City of London, or grinning at the desperate manner in which Paterfamilias tried to make a waiter understand that he would not be cheated. Mayence is generally the end of the cockney trip up the Rhine, and between that city and Wiesbaden they divide their time. With every steamer hundreds of them land to go through the old system of sight-seeing, and making the English name detested on the Continent by their morgue and suspicion. The Germans have discovered that the race of Milords has given place to a set of grumbling, discontented tradesmen, who regard every item of their bill as an attempted imposition, and wrangle bitterly over





a groschen overcharge: no matter if the landlord try to be honest, it is of no use; he knows by sad experience that his account will be disputed, and he is forced to attempt a swindle if only to get his own.



My



As an instance of the change that has come over the travelling English, I may mention a circumstance that occurred to me four years back in this very town of Mayence. wife being with me, I took her to see the Cathedral, and as the gaily-bedizened Suisse offered his services, I did not find in my heart to reject his offer, although I could have found my way about blindfold. Three Englishmen joined us they abused the poor fellow's broken English: they uttered coarse remarks about mummery: in short, they made themselves as offensive as only Englishmen can do. When all the sights had been inspected, they took occasion of a side door to bolt, leaving me to pay the Suisse, whose services they had entirely claimed. No wonder that English





men are disliked abroad, I thought to myself.

But none of these thoughts occurred to Herbert Leigh, as he listened to the impertinent remarks of his chums. He was utterly wretched, and suffering in addition from a state of seediness, the result of his overnight's debauch. The remembrance of his rash promise to Jessie weighed like lead upon him: he could not imagine how he had been such a fool he must induce her to give it back and trust to his honour. An accident might make its existence known to the family, and what an awful position he would then be in!



:



At times he thought he would brave all, and boldly ask for Blanche's hand, but would Jessie remain silent? Certainly not, and Sir

Norton had too nice a sense of honour to make any allowance for his folly. The old gentleman took a deep interest in Jessie, as her parents were dead, and he was her natural protector, and if he thought that.





Herbert had been trifling with her feelings, nothing would induce him to overlook such an insult to himself. What could he do in the matter? Herbert continued to ask himself, but no satisfactory answer occurred to him. He could only, like a coward, bide the course of events.

All at once it struck him that if all other means failed, he could bribe Jessie into silence. Suppose that he offered an annuity, which his marriage with Blanche would enable him to do-but, then, he was afraid of the girl, something told him that she was actuated by affection for his unworthy self, and might feel insulted by such an offer. However, if all other means failed, he would try this. Here his meditations were interrupted by the noisy approach of Mr Brien with his shadow, Mr Stubbs.

"Well, gentlemen, I hope you are enjoying yourselves thoroughly, in this gay and cheerful





scene?"-the reverend gentleman commenced washing his hands with invisible soap, and waving them about as if to dry them; "how deeply should we regret that this exquisite landscape should be disfigured by so many symptoms of catholicism. This morning, on coming from Wiesbaden to Castel, I was shocked by noticing a peasant woman kneeling before a stone crucifix by the highway. Ah me! it is very sad!"

And the reverend gentleman shook his head, and fervently thanked Heaven, no doubt, that he was not as she, that he followed a system of organised hypocrisy, by which he never stinted any single passion-but then it was not known to the world. If there were any one thing more especially admirable in Mr Brien's character, it was his versatility: he could always be all things to all men-and as the Honourable Stubbs' mamma, the Lady Molsey, had any quantity of livings in her gift, and was the





very



lowest of churchwomen, Mr Brien edified his pupil by reading him a moral lesson on all possible occasions.

And here for the first time Herbert saw a symptom of intelligence escape the stolid youth: while Mr Brien was improving the occasion, the young reprobate positively winked at Bertie, who hid his face in his pocket-handkerchief, for fear of a sudden outburst. not escape Mr Brien's notice; he was popularly supposed to have eyes in the back of his head, so he rapidly changed the subject.



This did



"But such thoughts," the holy man continued, "are not adapted for our present harmless gaiety. And how is Lady Folgate with her charming daughters?" he said, turning to our hero.

Now, Herbert had a sad habit of blushing at this period of his life, and the sudden rosy hue that covered his cheek showed the keen-eyed parson a blot. He must find out how the land





lay in that quarter; it would not do to neglect Herbert at present, so he was soon engaged in an animated conversation with him about Dr Butler, whom every man that had the happiness of sitting at his feet learned to love, and he was inwardly much amused at the warmth with which Herbert spoke of his old school-master. Then, growing tired of the talk, which was not food for strong men, and fearing to be a check on his pupils, Mr Brien saw an imaginary friend in the distance, and bowed and smiled himself away. It was the very model of a private tutor.

Suddenly Mr Stubbs lifted up his voice and spoke.

"Pwecious old humbug-as if I could n't see through it all--to-mowwow he 'll wite a long letter to the maternity, full of godly allusions, and displaying his zeal in keeping me from the arms of the scarlet lady. I can see his little game. You fellows think I'm an ass, because I'





can't say clever things like Bertie there, but I think my lot for all that. Mr Brien shan't get over the old woman, if I know it.”

When Brutus threw off his assumed idiotcy, and stepped forth as the champion of the Roman aristocracy, the change could not have produced greater surprise than was caused by this modest expression of opinion on the part of the Honourable booby. Bertie and Rutherford roared again with laughter, while the silent youth walked away, hitting out savagely at nothing, but wishing it was his reverend tutor's head.

By this time the music was over and the trio felt a vacuum, so they chartered a cab, and proceeded back to the town. At the Rheinischer Hof they drew bridle, and soon were seated over a most excellent supper, not sparing the Champagne. The only other occupant of the room was a French gentleman, with the red-ribbon in his button-hole, whom

the obsequious waiter addressed as Monsieur





le Comte, when he brought him his sugar water. Gradually he joined in the conversation which the young Englishmen were holding, speaking splendid English by the way, and when his supper was served, he asked permission to join their table, which they gladly. granted, for his conversation was most interesting. He was full of anecdote, and the hours rapidly glided away; more and more Champagne was ordered in, and, at last, the three Englishmen were forced with regret to call for their bills, as they wished to catch the last train.

When the waiter produced the bill, it was found that, by some mistake, the whole of the wine was included in it. Bertie, always reckless, insisted on paying it, but to this the Frenchman demurred. A contest of politeness ensued, but the Count at length spoke so seriously that Bertie saw that he should give him offence if he pressed it. At length some one suggested that they had better play it off-had





they been all Englishmen, the simple expedient of "odd man out" would have sufficed, but, of course, the Count had never heard of this. Cards were proposed, and Bertie, having a fatal knowledge of Ecarté, challenged the Frenchman to that insidious game.

Now, it is generally supposed that, if a Frenchman knows anything, it is the game of Ecarté, which is one of the first things he learns. Strange to say, though, M. le Comte was a very muff: he laughingly explained that he never played and now only did so to settle a dispute which was disagreeable to him. In short, the game was soon over, and Bertie the winner. The Count rose from his seat and summoned the waiter.





Hang it all, Mossou," said Bertie, "the match was n't a fair one, and I think I ought to offer you a revanche. Suppose we make up a pool, these gentlemen will join in, and let us have some more Champagne."

Herbert declined, but Rutherford eagerly





took up the challenge, and the Frenchman, after some hesitation, consented to play one poule. The stakes were small enough: two florins and one half-a-dozen of Champagne was ordered in, and the play commenced.

At first, fortune was very evenly divided: each won a pool, and by the time another halfdozen of wine had been attacked, the excitement of such small stakes palled. Bertie as usual, rash in an extreme degree, proposed pound stakes and ten-shilling games, and from this moment luck declared in favour of the Frenchman. Rutherford, who had only a few pounds in his pocket, and was naturally cautious, stood out, as soon as his money was gone, leaving Bertie still wrestling for the honour of his country. Practise certainly seemed to improve the play of the Frenchman, for he won every game, and Bertie savagely increased the stakes to five pounds a game.

Herbert Leigh was quite cool; although he had drunk heavily, the overwhelming misery





that preyed on his mind seemed to keep him sober, and, while Rutherford was singing fragments of old College songs, and bursting into insane shouts, he was leaning out of the window, watching the play of the moon upon the Rhine, or the smoke of his cigar as it rose in spirals. A sudden exclamation from Bertie called his attention to the table.

Here, Herbert, lend us ten pounds, that's a good fellow: I've lost every rap I had in my pocket, and I changed a circular note for fifty Naps this morning."

Of course Herbert consented, and whether it was that the money, having been his own, caused him to feel a greater interest in the game, he stood for a minute or two watching the players. A suspicious movement on the part of the Frenchman excited his attention: he watched him more closely, and felt convinced he was cheating. At length, when they stood at four all, the Frenchman to deal, he distinctly saw him draw the King of Clubs from the bottom





of the pack: he had been drinking hard, and his right hand had probably forgotten its cunning.

"Stay, Bertie!" Herbert shouted, "the Frenchman is cheating you."

"Is he, by Jove?" said Bertie, with a very insane laugh, "then here 's at him."

And, catching hold of an empty Champagne bottle, he swung it round his head and made a desperate blow at the Frenchman. The latter started up with a frightful howl and rushed from the room.

"By heavens, something serious will come of this," Herbert said, "there's mischief in that Frenchman's eye. I must see what we can do to stop him."

So saying, Herbert proceeded to the landlord and begged his interference in a few words, which was readily promised, and Herbert returned to the sitting-room, where he found Mr Dymoke drinking Champagne out of a tumbler, and apparently oblivious of all that had passed.





He had scarce time to put him on his guard, when the Frenchman came bouncing into the room with a pair of pistols in his hand. Throwing one across the table to Dymoke, he hastily cocked the other, and was going to fire, when Rutherford, now perfectly cool and collected at the thought of a row, put one foot behind the Frenchman, and gave him a violent blow between the eyes. Down went the Count, like a stunned bullock: off went the pistol, but instead of the bullet passing through Mr Dymoke's brain, as was at first charitably intended, it flew into a huge pier glass, which it shivered from top to bottom.



:



At this moment the door was thrown open, and in walked a Prussian Guard with fixed bayonets and, in spite of their protestations, all four were walked off to the prison, the poor landlord wringing his hands, and wondering who would pay for the Champagne and the broken glass.

Herbert gave his evidence calmly, and pro





duced a decided effect upon the official, who was hurriedly summoned from his beer to inquire into the matter. He began to thaw visibly, when he found out they were not red républicans, trying to seize the fortress by a coup de main, and the sight of their passports perfectly satisfied him. With the Frenchman, however, it was different: in the first place, he had no passport, which was a most heinous offence, and, then, his behaviour had been very suspicious. So, confiscating the Englishmen's passports for the present, which he assumed was as good as taking heavy bail for their future appearance, the dread functionary allowed them to depart, after reading them a good-humoured lecture about playing Ecarté with strangers. As for the Count, he was locked up till he could legitimate himself, and having been afterwards proved a notorious. rogue and cast-off croupier from the gambling table at Homburg, he was sent to cool his heels for four years in the fortress.





Having thus recovered from their fright, our three friends returned to the Hotel, and soon put the landlord at ease as to the settlement of the bill. He very generously declined making any charge for the glass, which he thought would do very well as it was, and might create a sensation, and the trio retired to bed, very much to the benefit of their health.

The unwonted agitation, however, drove sleep from Herbert's eyes; and he lay for a long time pondering on the future. There was no loophole, that he could see: if he could only recall the past, how differently would he behave, but that was not to be. At length he fell off into a troubled slumber, from which the tramp of the patrol aroused him every hour, and he enjoyed the peculiar benefit of living in a fortified



town.



Certainly, for a young man just commencing life, Herbert Leigh had made as nice a mess of it as he could well expect. If Sir Norton became acquainted with all the facts, he would





not keep them secret, unless Herbert married Jessie, and so ruin stared him in the face on either side. To me it appears, however, that the evil was of his own making: he had bound himself to Jessie voluntarily, and must put up with the consequences. After all, there was no great hardship in marrying a pretty, loving girl,-but, then she had not the £30,000.

Altogether Herbert was sadly uncomfortable when he made his appearance at Sir Norton's the next morning-the more so, perhaps, because on entering the drawing-room he found Mr Stubbs already seated by Blanche's side, and watching every movement of her flashing crochet-needle. But, of course, that was of no consequence to him now-she or her fortune was lost to him for ever-but, confound her bad taste, to listen to that young pup, when he condescended to speak to her.

"Oh, Mr Leigh," said the beauty with one of her sunniest smiles, "we have been anxiously expecting you. Papa wants to ride over to





Schlangenbad to-day, and expects you to be of the party. By the bye, I think he wishes to speak to you in his room," she added after, a pause, as she pulled a rose to pieces.

And the bright flash of hardly-concealed triumph that shot across her face told Herbert. that the dreaded hour of disclosure had arrived. So, like a coward, he replied:

"I remember now I have an important letter to write will you ask your papa to ex: cuse me to-day? I am not well-a headache-"

Impossible, Mr Leigh," said the beauty, pouting, "papa cannot accept any excuse, I know. He is most anxious to speak to you about a very important matter, connected with

I think something about Brian going to Heidelberg for six months."

But the wicked twinkle of her eye showed that the motive was a very different one,

Suddenly the Brazen Head spoke again. "I wather think Mr Brien is waiting for me at the weading-woom. Good morning."





And before any attempt could be made to stop him, the long youth had seized hat and cane and stalked out of the room. Herbert wished himself a hundred miles away, even in the Mayence prison again-anywhere than in the presence of the girl whom he could not



marry.





Well, Mr Leigh, here still? I'm sure pa will be so vexed if you do not go to him—and I —”





Here she stamped her foot and looked prettier than ever in her petulance.

"Well, and I of course,





about my brother's education."



I am anxious



"No, Blanche, it is not that: I feel there is something more than this of which I am as yet ignorant. Can it be? but no, the thought is too daring."

"Mr Leigh, do you remember a scene in Kenilworth, where Sir Walter Raleigh writes a line on a certain pane of glass?"





:



"It is so, then I may dare to hope: oh, Blanche, what a vista of happiness you open up before me. You do love me, then I have not been mistaken,-I hoped I had excited a feeling of interest, but this exceeds my fondest hopes. Let me hear the avowal from your own sweet lips, or I cannot yet believe in the exquisite reality."





There, go away to papa: you forget you are keeping him waiting, and you know he cannot bear that. Now, do not tease me so: I have nothing to say to you."

"I will not go till have answered my



you



question. Oh, Blanche, do not keep me on the rack the suspense is more than I can endure."



:



"Well, then!" she replied in the prettiest of whispers, "papa will give you my answer. But now go: Harriette will be coming in directly, and I do not want her prying eyes upon me."

Herbert quitted the room in a perfect whirl





of sensations: he must break off with Jessie, that was certain: she would see the absolute necessity of such a step. But first he must hear what Sir Norton had to say to him, although he could guess it very nearly. And so feeling quite confident of the issue, the betrothed husband of Jessie proceeded to enter into negotiations with the father for the hand of her young mistress.

Master Herbert, Master Herbert, why could you not call to mind the old proverb, "It's well to be off with the old love before

you are on with the new"? Had



you



done so,



you might have saved yourself a considerable



amount of humiliation.





CHAPTER VI.



INTERVIEW THE FIRST.



SIR NORTON was seated in his bed-room, which served as study, writing room, and treasure room, after the continental fashion. To judge by the pleasant smile that hovered over his still good-looking face, the subject of his meditations must have been most agree able to him. Before him lay a large redbound ledger, the pages of which he turned over with practised hand, stopping every now and then to devote his attention to some item that appeared to him more interesting than the rest. At times, too, he cast a quick, hasty glance toward the door, as if expecting





some one to arrive whom he was awaiting, and then again turned his thoughts to the promised happiness he anticipated in the marriage between Blanche and Herbert.

Blanche's half-hints to our hero were quite correct; her father had that morning crossquestioned her as to the regard she felt for Herbert, and the girl had blushingly avowed her readiness to accept him as her husbandalways supposing that Herbert was influenced by the same feelings toward herself.



But



while making this reservation, the young gipsey's eye sparkled so brightly that Sir Norton could easily see that she expected no opposition on his part. When she retired, her father was pleased to think that all would henceforth go merrily as a marriage bell.

Up to this time Sir Norton had been in a fever of suspense he had grown to love the young fellow sincerely, and was most anxious to make him his son-in-law. Any opposition he dreaded was on Blanche's part; for, know





ing that the girls had been carefully educated by their step-mother as to the advantages fortune gives, he was afraid that Blanche would have set her heart upon marrying a title. He had watched with much inward satisfaction the growing intimacy between the

couple and had contrived many innocent



:



schemes for leaving them together.

Now he looked forward to a speedy consummation of his hopes, for, having the lady on his side, he felt the battle was gained.

As for any hesitation on Herbert's part, Sir Norton never gave that a thought: goodhearted gentleman that he was, old associations made him regard marriage as a species of mercantile contract in which it was highly advisable that blood should be given in èxchange for fortune. Not for a moment would he have forced his daughter's inclinations-had she declined his proposition, he would have resigned it without a word—but as it was, he could not by possibility see how





Herbert could decline so advantageous an offer. The lad was poor and apparently ambitious, and his connexion with a rich family would satisfy all his demands. Believing, too, that he did not regard Blanche with indifference, the matter presented no difficulties; and, although his wife might object, still Sir Norton thought it was his daughter, and so long as the interests of her sons were guarded, she would be a most unreasonable woman if she attempted to thwart him. While arranging all this comfortably in his mind, a tap came at the door, and our hero made his appearance.







Glad to see you, Mr Herbert!" was the fine old gentleman's greeting. "I have been expecting you some time—I have a matter I want to consult with you about-so sit down, and we'll have a grand palaver, as the Indians call it."

Herbert bowed, being far too agitated to speak, and awaited Sir Norton's commands. But now that the decisive moment had arrived,





the old gentleman found considerable difficulty in broaching the subject, which had till now seemed to him so simple. He hem'd, and

haw'd, and shifted in his chair, and at length burst forth

"It's a fine day for a walk, ain't it?"

[This hesitation of Sir Norton's puts me in mind of a circumstance that occurred at Oxford too good to be lost. The warden of Barnabas (suppose I call the College so) was a delightful old fellow, as indeed most dons are-his only fault was that he suffered from an invincible bashfulness, which caused him agony when he had to blow up an undergraduate.

Now there was at Barnabas a reprobate of the name of Mountjoy, a fat, burly youth, who nearly broke the warden's heart by his infraction of rules. To him no quadrangle grassplat was sacred, and his delight was to lounge about the College smoking cigars from morn till night. This grew at last to such a pitch that the warden could not stand it any longer





---so, one morning after chapel, Mr Mountjoy was summoned to his presence.

When the lusty youth made his appearance, confident in his innocence, the good old

warden's heart misgave him he could not



:



crush that fair young man by his wrath. And yet the fault was a grave one; he must allude to it. Turning, then, to his bookshelves and fidgeting about an escritoire, his courage returned, when the youth was no longer before him. So he bravely began:

"I believe you smoke, Mr Mountjoy?' Thankye, Mr Warden," said the culprit, with consummate impudence, "never before breakfast."

The warden collapsed: he was evidently regarded as a particeps criminis-the undergraduate thought he was going to ask him to have a cigar.

“Another time, Mr Mountjoy, another time: that will do, good morning," was all he could stammer.]





In the same way Sir Norton would have gladly dismissed Herbert. However, there was no possibility of this, so he began again :

"I believe, Mr Herbert, I have often spoken with you about the advantage of early mar riages I think all young men ought to settle



:



down in life, if they have any decent prospect of supporting a wife, for it gives them a degree of respectability which is of considerable use hereafter."

This being an abstract proposition, Herbert bowed, but said nothing. So the Knight was forced to begin again.

"I consider this opinion of mine is equally applicable to young women: they ought to undertake the responsibilities of life at an early age and if an opportunity of marrying suitably offers, I would not have them neglect it rashly."

Another stoppage, saluted by another bow from our hero.

"I have, therefore," the perplexed old gentle





man went on, "been for some time on the lookout for a suitable husband for my eldest daughter-and I think I have found one who is all I could desire."

Herbert, for the life of him, could not refrain from plaguing the gentleman, so he said with the most innocent face in the world:

"Mr Stubbs, I presume?"



young



"Mr Stubbs be- -," and here the worthy Knight fortunately checked himself, though with a very red face. "Do you think my daughter suited to marry such a blockhead as that fellow? No, my No, my dear boy, I have selected a very different person, who will do us all honour. In a word, Herbert, if I am correct in my surmise, and you really love Blanche well enough to marry her-if you think you can pass through life with her as your companion-you shall have her and my blessing with her."

And here Sir Norton, having unbosomed himself, heaved an intense sigh of relief. Her



VOL. I.





bert attempted to speak, but the old gentleman was determined to have his say out at once. The ice was broken, and he would get over it as rapidly as he could, for fear of sticking fast once again.

"I have watched you, my dear boy, ever since you joined our family circle, and you have always behaved as a gentleman. It is true that you are not favoured by fortune, but, thank Providence, we can make up for that. The honourable manner in which you have refrained from speaking to Blanche on the subject only enhances the respect I feel for you. But, now, you have my full permission to tell her all your feelings, and the sooner you get her consent the happier I shall be. Somehow or other, I cannot help fancying at times that something will occur to part us, and, then, I should be quite broken-hearted-for I have begun to look upon you as a son. In the way



I



propose, I can make sure of you, and with

you as my son-in-law, I shall begin to take an





interest in home matters again. We must go back to England: and you must get into Parliament as soon as you can: and then, my boy, with your talents, there is no knowing how high you may go."

Very little of this address was noticed by our hero for, during the whole time he had been. in the room, he had been trying to decide what course he should pursue. With honour pulling him one way and interest the other, he knew not which path to choose-but, at last, he decided in favour of the latter he could not neglect such a golden opportunity-and he must find some means to pacify Jessie. At length, then, warned by Sir Norton's silence, he found himself compelled to make a reply, and he began stammering out some phrases about gratitude, his unworthiness, and so on, which Sir Norton speedily cut short.

"God bless you, my dear boy, you have made me the happiest father in the universe.



Now I



may



tell you



in confidence, that Blanche





is equally well-disposed toward you, and you will have no difficulty in gaining her consent. But, mind you, we will keep this affair a secret between ourselves at present. I have no idea of having my daughter's name bandied about among all the do-nothing English collected here just now; Lord knows they concoct enough scandal as it is. However, the course is now quite clear to you, and when we have arranged as to the time for the marriage to take place, it will be soon enough to make it public. But, now I must run off to the Library, and see the paper. If old Grymes gets hold of it before I reach there, small chance shall I have of reading a line of the Times this day."

And the jolly old gentleman shook Herbert heartily by the hand, and trotted off at full speed, leaving his happy son-in-law with a species of sensation as if he were about to be hanged. Now that the matter was settled, and he was fated to be Blanche's husband, all her imperfections sprang up before him in startling





array; she was haughty, self-willed, and domineering; her beauty was, after all, only material; he was quite convinced she would not insure him matrimonial bliss. But then, on the other hand, his fortune was secured for life; he could enjoy himself without the necessity of working, and he should be respected and respectable.

Altogether the prospect was not so bad: he felt that nine people out of ten would deride his scruples-but then, all at once, the thought of his now-lost Jessie intruded. It was quite certain that he must see her and break the news to her before she heard of it from any other lips; otherwise, the burst of passion she would fall into would afford a perilous risk of their secret being guessed. Then he proceeded home to his lodgings, to write a billet to the girl, which he would hand her during the day, and before he went to bed that night everything would be arranged.

Unfortunately, the best of schemes fail from





the simplest causes now and then; in this instance, Blanche's impetuosity betrayed the secret of her marriage to Harriette, and thus it became known through the feminine portion of the family.

On this morning Harriette had been more provoking than ever; perhaps the sight of Mr Stubbs, on the evening before, devoting his exclusive attention to Blanche had exasperated her; perhaps she might be suffering from a migraine, that French word expressive of every female malady, but generally meaning bad temper, produced by indigestion. Whatever it was, Harriette had been quarrelling with her sisters the whole of that morning; she had driven the placid step-mother to seek shelter in her bed-room, while Alice had crept off to the school-room, and was devouring "Werther," under the pretence of studying German. Blanche, though, held her ground firmly; she was too happy to allow herself to be routed from the room by Harriette's sneers, and she scarce





condescended to reply to them. Only, now and then, an almost imperceptible arching of her eyebrows proved that the barb had gone home.

The subject of the lecture was the same as

usual; Blanche's intolerable levity and laxity of principle in encouraging that tutor. She (Harriette) was really ashamed to live under the same roof with her; her conduct was the subject of general conversation, and people sneered openly at her folly, although they called it by another term. In short, she considered it her duty to call Sir Norton's attention to her flagrant conduct, and unless she (Blanche) promised to amend, she would assuredly carry her threat into execution.

"Well, Harriette, my dear," said Blanche, lazily, "you will not have to endure my conduct much longer. I think it very probable that I shall be going away before long, and then you can lecture little Alice. Poor dear creature, I am sure you will miss me terribly."

Harriette was puzzled for a second, but the





meaning at once struck her, and in genuine excitement she said:

"What! are you going to be married?"

"So papa says," Blanche replied with a delightful smile, and offering her hand to her sister; "pray congratulate me."

But Harriette was too busy with conjecture to notice the appeal; at length she went on half in soliloquy :

"How strange! I hardly thought Mr Stubbs would have proposed on so short an acquaintance."

"Mr Stubbs, indeed!" said the beauty, tossing her head indignantly, "I really think, Harriette, you might give me credit for a little more taste. Why, if there was n't another man in the world, I would n't have Mr Stubbs."





(Oh you little story-teller, you know very well that half a loaf is better than no bread.")

"It can't be the tutor?" Harriette continued, in her soliloquy.





"And why can't it?" Blanche retorted, in some excitement, as she roused herself from her cushions; "he's a gentleman-and I love him" (this was said with the sweetest pout in the world), "and I fancy, Miss Harriette, that another young lady of my acquaintance would have been very glad to marry the tutor, if he had asked her."

Blanche was beginning to grow angry: Harriette's remark made her think that the outer world would consider she was throwing herself away. The idea germinated rapidly, and she was beginning to pride herself on the sacrifice she was making for Herbert, poor, dear fellow.

"I presume you allude to Alice ?" Harriette replied, maliciously, not minding how she exposed herself to a retort, if she could make her sister feel uncomfortable. Highly delighted was she then, when Blanche, instead of replying, suddenly turned very pale and sank back on the sofa. Alley! it might be true-she had





never thought of that, but the more she puzzled her brain, the more the thought seemed to carry conviction home. But, nonsense, Herbert would not fall in love with a child like that, and yet it was very curious that he had hesitated so long in declaring his feelings to herself. Then, again, the unpleasant idea occurred to her that all the love-making had been on her side; she had given Herbert every possible encouragement permissible to a fille bien elevée, she had walked with him, flirted with him, at first to pass the dull hours away, until she had begun to find that the little god had nestled so closely in her heart that she could not dislodge him: on Herbert she had bestowed the treasure of her virgin love, but he had certainly been very cool. Could it be that he was only enamoured of her fortune? At any rate she would watch Alice closely, and if she found any clue to the feelings of her heart, why- And here the petulant beauty





clenched her dainty hands, and decided on giving Master Herbert a much warmer greeting than he had any reason to anticipate.

All this time Harriette was watching the progress of the poison she had instilled and was gloating over the thought of the discomfort she was creating, when the door opened, and in walked Lady Folgate, accompanied by Alice.





'Oh, my dear mamma," she went up to her Ladyship, demonstratively, "I have something so good to tell you; you are soon going to have a new son. Only think, our Blanche is about to be married."





Some more of your nonsense, I presume, Harriette," said the elder lady, as she seated herself on the sofa; "I really thought we had had enough of this sort of thing to-day. Do let us have a little peace. I am quite tired of this continual sparring."



а



My dear mamma," the young lady said in





an injured tone, "you will misunderstand me; look at our dear Blanche-does n't she look like a happy bride? "

Lady Folgate turned to Blanche, who was pale as a ghost, and far from answering Harriette's description.

"Well, my dear girl, is there any truth in Harriette's statement? or is she only vexing you as usual? Come, I begin to think you have kept your secret well, you might have confided in me-who is the happy swain?





"Oh! spare her blushes, mamma," said Harriette, "pray allow me to introduce you to him. It is no one else than your special favourite, Mr Herbert Leigh."



was



"What! the tutor? impossible. He would not dare-my daughter, Sir Norton-" all the lady could hurriedly ejaculate.

I must put a stop to this at once."



"Oh!



And she hurried from the room, determined to give Sir Norton a piece of her mind, as vulgar people would call it. Unfortunately





for her, he had not yet returned, and she was left in a terrible state of suspense.

Well, Alley, dear," said Harriette, when the sisters were alone, "will you not offer Blanche your congratulations? Why, what on earth is the matter with the girl?" she exclaimed in surprise, as she turned and saw Alice lying back in her chair, apparently lifeless. She was really frightened at the success of her scheme: she had no idea Alice would be so childish as to evince her feelings so plainly, and she, therefore, made every possible effort to restore her before Lady Folgate came back. Before long she succeeded, and poor Alley was enabled to say:

"It is nothing-only the heat. I shall be better directly, indeed I shall. Let me go up to my room, please, and lie down for a little while. I haven't felt well for a day or two, I suppose the weather is too hot.”

And, rising, she tottered toward the door.

But Blanche could not endure to see her





:



sister suffering, though she guessed the cause: with a sudden outburst of pity she took the slender girl round the waist and led her to her room, where she sought to console her by every means in her power. But Alice shrunk from her sister she begged to be allowed to sleep so Blanche left her at length, quite determined to find out by fair means or foul whether there had been any encouragement on Herbert's part. If he had trifled with her sister's feelings she would renounce him on the spot there was a strong share of Sir Norton's chivalrous feelings in her blood, and she was prepared to sacrifice her happiness, sooner than marry a man who was unworthy of her. If it had been Harriette's design to produce a disturbance of the family comfort, she had been perfectly successful.

In the meanwhile, Alice was sobbing out her confessions on Jessie's breast, who had entered the room just after Blanche had quitted it. By a very slight effort she had





drawn her secret from her young mistress, and had quite made up her mind how to act. In truth, Herbert's vacillation during the last few days had not escaped her all-observant eyes and she had been awaiting the crisis, ready armed for every emergency. Her first object being to soothe Alice into a false security, she merely said to her in that quiet tone of confidence which carries conviction with it:

"You have no occasion to fret, Miss Alice: you may believe me when I tell you that Mr Herbert will not marry your sister."

Alice shook her head sadly, but she began to feel easier in mind. Just as the shipwrecked mariner clings to a drifting spar, in the faint chance of safety, so Alice clung to the only person in whom she could place confidence, and was ready to follow her advice.

"Now then, Miss Alice, you must take heart you must be very careful to hide your feelings just at present, it would be ruin if





your parents were to guess anything now, before the match with Blanche is broken off. I tell you that I can do that, and you know me well enough to trust my word."

"But, how, Jessie? Suppose Sir Norton gives his consent?

"That is my secret, my dear Miss Alice: and I cannot tell it you yet. Before a couple of days are passed you will see how true my prophecy was. But, now, you must try and sleep for an hour before dinner, and get back your colour. I will sit by your side and lull



you to sleep."



And Jessie began singing a quaint old ballad of any number of verses, which had the effect of opium on Alice's agitated nerves So soon as the poor girl was soundly asleep Jessie rose noiselessly.

"And now, to play out the last act of the drama," she said, as she glided from the room. Within five minutes she had left the house and was on the road to Herbert's lodgings.





CHAPTER VII.



INTERVIEW THE SECOND.

FEW happier men could have been found at Wiesbaden, on this eventful day, than Sir Norton Folgate, and his heart audibly beat as he thought how admirably he had managed matters. Not only was the darling wish of his heart secured by the promise he had drawn from his favourite, but he was enjoying the exquisite satisfaction of defeating his ancient enemy, Grymes, who had absolutely turned green with rage because Sir Norton had kept the Times for two whole hours. Having this double cause of pleasure, the worthy old gentleman





་





thought he could not do better than go to dinner, for, having nothing on his conscience to disturb it, he enjoyed his meals hugely.

All at once he remembered that he had forgotten to tell Herbert to write to his solicitor about the settlements, and he had quite got out of the way of epistolary correspondence himself, since he had kept a secretary. Consulting his watch and finding ample time to write the letter and appear at dinner parade punctually, he leisurely lounged along the burning hot pavement, fanning himself luxuriantly with his broad-brimmed hat and gazing affectionately on the small boys, who were enjoying their sport with utter defiance of coup de soleil.

Presently, Sir Norton reached Herbert's lodgings, and after withstanding the sharp attack of the landlady, who rushed out from a mysterious den whence a fragrant smell of roasting coffee exhaled, and who made some violent remarks about his proceeding up-stairs,





which he did not understand, Sir Norton toddled up to the first floor and knocked at Herbert's door.

After waiting patiently for a responsive "come in," Sir Norton clinked the latch, and laughed at his own stupidity, when he found he had been knocking at the bed-room door. He was just drawing back, when, seeing the door of communication with the sitting-room ajar, he thought he would go that way. He moved on, but had scarce reached the door when he stood transfixed: he heard a woman passionately appealing to Herbert, in a voice strangely familiar to him, to whom the young man only replied by heart-breaking sobs.

Sir Norton was in a strange predicament; his sense of honour was so nice that he would not for a moment be an involuntary listenerand he was just on the point of thrusting open the door, when a thought occurred to him. This young man, to whom a girl was so passionately appealing, was betrothed to his daughter, and





was evidently a traitor to his love. Was he not justified in seeking a confirmation of his worst fears, even if the means were illicit ? it was a point of casuistry which only a Jesuit could decide: but in the absence of that useful gentleman, Sir Norton listened, and soon was in no doubt as to the voice.

"It is true, then, Herbert, you have wantonly trifled with my affections. You chose me as the toy of your leisure hours, and practised upon me the passionate love-speeches you were preparing for your new love. God forgive you, Herbert, but I cannot,—you have blighted my existence to serve your own selfish views, and nothing is left for your poor Jessie but to die and make room for her favoured rival!"

Still Herbert made no reply, save agonizing sobs; the tears stole silently through his fingers, and he was suffering a world of agony. After a pause Jessie continued:

“And, then, you insult me by the offer of





money-as if that would compensate me for the loss of my dearest hopes. Oh, Herbert! you little know what you throw away in crushing my heart thus! I would have worked my fingers' ends off for you, and thought no privation too great, were it repaid by your love, but the sacrifice you now ask of me is beyond my strength. I feel in losing you I shall lose the light of my life."

Still Herbert sobbed on, and knew not what



to say.



Thackeray, when desirous of depicting the utter worthlessness of Sir Francis Clavering, thinks he has put the crowning seal on his character when he makes the degenerate Baronet cry and wish he were dead. In such a case, tears might certainly be unmanly, like those a child sheds at the loss of a favourite toy, -but those tears wrung from a strong man's agony are to me inexpressibly touching. Sir Norton must have felt the same, else he would not have passed his hand over his





brow and huskily muttered, "Poor girl! poor boy!"

Again Jessie urged her frantic appeal. Her lovely hair hung dishevelled over her face: her tear-swollen eyes seemed almost starting from their orbits, and she wrung her hands with a piteous wailing, that would have moved the heart of Colonel Kyrke. And yet Herbert spoke not a word. It seemed as if he were turned to stone, had not the convulsive heaving of his heart proved that he was suffering torture from which petrifaction would have been a grateful relief.

Much more in the same strain did Jessie add, until, at length, Herbert, unable to resist her fond appeal, said, as if just pulling the trigger to blow his brains out:

"Well, Jessie, I suppose I must marry you. Such a step will be my utter ruin, and it will be a mournful retrospect for us some day, when I reflect that to your selfishness I owe my ruin. Had I but a certainty of supporting you, did I





know where to turn for a shilling on leaving this place, I would not hesitate a moment. You know I love you. I need no asseverations to convince you of that, and do you fancy I feel no pangs at making the sacrifice of your heart? but I think it only prudent to ask you to recall your decision, for I feel that such a step as our marriage would be the cause of incessant remorse, certainly to me, and perhaps to both of us."

Silently Jessie sat gazing at him, as if trying to read his sincerity in his eyes—then, with a heavy sigh, she added:

"Be it so, then-I agree with you that our marriage would be your ruin, and that you make a heavy sacrifice in fulfilling your promise. But the sacrifice must not be one-sided " -then, with a half-choking sensation she continued, "Mr Leigh, I release you from all your promises to me,-here is the offer of marriage you gave me, and in destroying that, we will let the past bury its past."





And the brave girl drew the document from her breast, and was just on the point of tearing it across when it was violently torn from her hand. She looked round and fell to the ground with a shriek, on recognising her master, who stood between them with all the innate dignity of a good man, whose honour had never been tarnished by a single questionable transaction.



poses



Talk as you please of the of our great orators. Go into raptures over Chatham sinking back into the arms of his friends. I maintain that, at this moment, Sir Norton surpassed the utmost efforts of our artists, for his brow was stamped with the impress of truth. Call him dumpy, squat, vulgar, if you will, but, at this sublime moment, he appeared to shake all this off and stood before Herbert as Nathan stood before David. For a second the young man tried to meet his gaze, but soon a sickly sensation overpowered him; he felt as if he





were choking, and he fell back in his armchair, and leant his head on the arm.

"Herbert Leigh," said the old man, sternly, "I am glad to see those tears, for they evidence to me that remorse is not yet dead in you, nor are you the reckless villain I at first deemed you. But, if you have a spark of manhood left in you, you will immediately raise up that poor victim now cowering in the consciousness of guilt at your feet, and offer her the only reparation in your power as the atonement for your great sin.”

"I assure you on my honour Sir Norton, you are mistaken”

"Honour! how dare you talk of honour after your conduct to that poor child? You have promised her marriage. You have placed her in a Fool's Paradise, and now, on the prospect of a better match, you try to cast her aside. But if you thought she was an easy, because a defenceless, prey, you are mistaken,





I will defend her, and if I find that you have acted a villain's part to her, you will have a terrible reckoning with me."

"You are strangely mistaken, Sir Norton: I assure you that Jessie is as innocent as your own daughters. I own that I have committed a great wrong: I have led her into a belief of the sincerity of my attachment to her, and, like a fool, continued the deceptive game, till matters reached the present catastrophe. But beyond that I have, thank God, no sin lying at my door."

By this time Jessie had recovered her senses, and was eagerly listening to the conversation-a vivid blush suffused her face, when Sir Norton looked fixedly at her, as if to convince himself of Herbert's truth, but she met his eye with so much dignity and firmness that the worthy knight heaved a profound sigh of relief.

"Oh! Herbert! Herbert!" he then said, "how could you be such a fool as to let a woman's bright eyes bewitch you? You have





destroyed my most pleasant dreams, and thrown away a chance which would have conduced to your happiness. But it's no use crying over spilled milk-you must put up with the consequences of your folly, and joy go with you. The only thing to be settled now is your marriage with Jessie, for, of course, the other is out of the question."

"I beg your pardon, Sir Norton," Herbert said with some degree of coldness, "you must have heard the young lady herself confess her readiness to give me up, when you entered the





"Oh, Herbert!" Jessie eagerly began; then suddenly checking herself, she said with a considerable degree of pride, "yes, sir, it is quite true, I have no desire now to marry Mr Herbert Leigh."

"I can only say, then, Mr Leigh, that, under the circumstances, the sooner we part the better," the old gentleman said, gravely. "I never yet knew any good come of a man





who broke his plighted word, and I cannot place that confidence in you which would justify me in allowing you to associate with my family. I hope you may not live to repent your conduct, but, at any rate, for this poor foolish girl's own sake, I shall keep this precious marriage promise. And now, Jessie, be off with you home: you have lost nothing in this young man, for he is rotten at the heart. Like a showy apple, he looks promising enough on the outside, but when you come to take a bite at him, paugh!"

Jessie rose and left the room, after casting a longing, lingering glance at Herbert, who, however, was so annoyed at the turn matters had taken that he did not deign to notice her. Then Sir Norton coolly seated himself at the table, and, after a calculation, drew out a cheque for the amount owing to his Ex-Secretary.

"And now, Mr Leigh, I wish you good afternoon whenever you are prepared to act





as a gentleman and redeem your pledge to that poor deluded girl, my doors will be open to you again—but not before. I will explain to Blanche that she has no cause to regret the loss of her lover; and if she be my child, she will whistle you down the wind and never mention your name again."

Though Sir Norton quitted Herbert so coldly, a volcano was at work in his breast: with his strong animal passions he felt as if he could only find relief in giving Herbert a hearty thrashing, which he richly deserved, I allow, and the thought of his loss added fuel to the fire. He walked home, his head whirling with a multitude of strange sensations, and proceeded to his bed-room, to dress for dinner, after locking up the fatal marriage promise in his bureau.



*



When Lady Folgate proceeded to call her liege lord for dinner, she was much surprised at finding him lying on the sofa, apparently





asleep. She went up to shake him, goodhumouredly, but she suddenly burst into a succession of genuine Irish shrieks-the poor old gentleman was dead as a ducat!

A doctor was hurriedly summoned, and a vein opened, but it was of no avail-Sir Norton was gone to that world where money is not regarded as a man's guage, and I am sure he bore the ordeal nobly. Good-hearted, honest GENTLEMAN by heart, if not by birth, when your earthly ledger was balanced, a heavy credit was found to your profit by the recording angel!

In the Irish mind a strange medley of regret and calculation is usually traceable, and Lady Folgate followed the natural law. After exhausting her grief, which was the shorter as it was the more violent, she felt a feminine inclination to know how she stood with the world. Aware that Sir Norton always kept a copy of his will in his cash-box, she overcame her repugnance at the sight of the corpse





and methodically examined the precious contents. Her eyes sparkled with triumph as she read that after leaving each of the girls £30,000, Sir Norton had bequeathed the whole of his immense property at her absolute disposal. She was just about shutting up the precious document when her eye fell on another,—it was the unlucky marriage promise!

Here was a splendid opportunity for getting rid of the tutor—really Sir Norton, if he must die, could not have selected a better moment; but then, with genuine Irish impulse, she rejected the thought as blasphemous, and went off to bed, where she cried herself to sleep, and not even the thought of her fortune served to console her for the loss of her husband—at least for the moment.

I may pass over the funeral and the reading of the will, for such solemn mockeries have been so often described, that they are almost as nauseous to the novel reader, as the stereotyped white veil and orange blossoms which the





legitimate three-vol. romance used to terminate with. But, so soon as all had been settled and the lawyers dismissed (by the way, nothing is more disgusting than that business-solemn look which your solicitor puts on at a funeral, making him resemble a vulture scenting carrion afar off) her Ladyship opened her batteries upon Herbert. She spoke like a thorough woman of the world; she regretted the folly which had caused him to sign such a document, and appealed as a mother of a family to him whether she was not justified in employing it for the protection of her step-daughter. Finally she proposed that, if he would promise to resign all claim in writing to Blanche's hand, she would restore him the incriminating document, which would mar his prospects through life.

Herbert, like the coward he was, clutched at the chance; at the moment he positively loathed Jessie as the cause of all his misfortune, and gladly consented to free himself





from the odious bond. He signed the paper Lady Folgate required, tore up the promise of marriage, and left the house with mutual good wishes.

As for Blanche, she wept for a long time over Herbert's defection, and refused to be comforted, until Lady Folgate and Harriette opened a combined attack upon her. The first artfully suggested that Herbert had left her because he was disappointed as to her fortune, the other threw out mysterious hints as to Alice's illness, which had been rendered almost fatal by the shock of her father's death; and between them they induced the regal Blanche to resign her betrothed very calmly.

I think the young woman had never really loved Herbert, that is to say, in the mystic sense of the term-she had certainly been attracted by his good looks, and thought he would make an excellent husband, as far as husbands went in the present day—but after all, she was throwing herself away, and as her





lover did not come to press his suit, and the Hon. Stubbs was contented to sit by her side and submit to be snubbed, the remembrance of Herbert gradually faded from her mind, like a badly-fixed photograph, and the plate was soon ready once more for the actinic rays of Cupid, which the mythologists clumsily represented by arrows.

Another change also took place in the family. Harriette had opened her mother's eyes as to the influence Jessie exerted over Alice, and this, combined with the marriage contract, made her Ladyship think it would be advisable to get rid of that young woman. She was, therefore, ordered home to England, to be placed under the care of a maiden aunt, and she left Wiesbaden without seeing Herbert again, but bearing a crushing load of sorrow in her youthful heart with her. At any rate, hers was that" perfect love which casteth out fear;" as a woman she was as far above Blanche as Cotopaxi is above Primrose Hill.





By the time all these events had happened, autumn had come on apace, and the summer swallows were flitting from Wiesbaden, to hide themselves in their London nests. The Folgates could not be behind the fashion, and were indeed heartily glad to quit a place full of such painful reminiscences. Hence the well-jointured widow decided on migrating for the winter to Florence, and the Rev. O'Flarty Brien, who had gained her confidence entirely, consented to act as tutor to the boys, vice Herbert Leigh, permitted to retire.

And my hero, what was he doing all this while? To tell you the truth, if you had asked him, he could not have told you. Disappointed ambition, and a hard course of drinking, had brought on a bilious fever, and he was enjoying the combined delights of ice on his head, and mustard plasters on the soles of his feet. When he recovered his senses and found his magnificent locks stripped off, he almost suffered a relapse, but the thought that they





would soon grow again consoled him. He rapidly regained his strength, and so soon as he was able to use his legs, he began, from some strange impulse, prowling round the hotel where his several loves had resided.

Seeing none of them at the balcony windows, he at length mustered up courage to ask what had become of them; to which my honest friend Götz replied in the most practical manner possible that "Dey vosh gone," and he "zall not knaw vereto." At length, by a careful perusal of the travellers' book, Herbert found them to be en route for Geneva, and, comforted by the idea that Jessie was in safe keeping, he began to cast about what he should do next.

My young gentleman had begun to appreciate the fact that he had enjoyed a fortunate escape, and although he really loved Jessie, in the only way a man can love once in his life, prudence taught him that the gratification of his love would be too expensive-to use





a Gallicism, the game would not be worth the candle. Hence, finding himself with nearly a hundred and fifty pounds in his purse, he decided on proceeding to the University of Heidelberg, where he could at any rate study German, till that vague something about which Mr Micawber was so fond of talking should turn up. Probably he was much persuaded to this decision by a letter he received from Bertie Dymoke, who, having been severely "plucked," declared that Oxford was all humbug, and went in for German student life.

I really think I may take credit to myself for the artistic way in which I have disposed of my dramatis persona; everybody with whom I have hitherto had to deal is comfortably "tiled in," and the reader can devote his undivided attention to the new scenery and decorations. Like Mr Charles Kean, who is falsely accused of subordinating Shakspeare to upholstery, I carefully study the right moment when my interlude should occur, and shall do





no violence to my text, if I interpolate my hero's amusements at Heidelberg. More especially do I take credit to myself for the practical manner in which I killed Sir Norton Folgate off, just at the moment when he was growing troublesome.

I remember once a worthy scribe, who had a dispute with his owner for the time being and was compelled to complete his story by the strong arm of the law, effectually finished it by drowning all his characters in the Dover Mail-boat. But see how merciful I am: I merely kill off an old gentleman, ripe in years and virtues, about whose future welfare my readers can entertain no doubt, and his timely removal from the stage adds wonderfully to the interest of my story.

Of course you, oh reader! cannot see the necessary link, but I, who have profoundly studied my subject, assure you that, in more senses than one, Sir Norton's death was a happy release. I confess to a sincere regret at his departure from.





among us, for I believe he is the only honest and sweet-blooded gentleman to be found in my story, but the exigencies of romance are peremptory-besides, had I attempted to keep him alive, he would have been horribly in the



way.



And thus my vagrant pen, attempting to imitate the becks and nods and wreathed smiles of old Father Chronos, as so admirably rejuvenated by Mrs Charles Kean, has been leading my readers a will-o-th'-wisp dance, merely because I wished to give the scene-shifters sufficient time to prepare the grand tableau, in which my hero will strut his brief hour in the

character of a German Student.





CHAPTER VIII.



LIFE AT HEIDELBERG.



Ar the time when Herbert Leigh proceeded to a German University in search of amusement and possible instruction, the old system of German student-life was in full vigour. The Clubs had not yet been put down by the strong arm of the law, and the students still kept up the old clannish associations, which, emanating from the War of Liberation in 1813, had degenerated into mere beer-drinking coteries, with farcical interludes. The young men had no other outlet for their effervescence than by continual duels, and the man who could





display the most scars, and who had the ineffable. satisfaction of having had the end of his nose cut off with a rapier and badly sewn. on, was regarded by his brother students as a hero. It was common enough for one Club to declare a feud against another, and all the members were bound to challenge the enemy, and fight to the detriment of their faces, for a German duel never ends in death, except when owing to a grave insult the students go out to combat with sabres or pistols.

The ordinary duel, resulting from such harmless insults, as calling an adversary "a stupid boy," was fought with what is technically called the "Schläger," or smiter, a long straight rapier with an enormously heavy basket handle, and sharpened like a razor for eight inches from the point, which is round. The combatants being wrapped up in leather, and having peaks to their caps descending almost to the nose, were obliged to hold the rapier point downwards, and as they could





not raise it above the elbow, it required considerable practise to inflict a wound. The only parts of the face exposed to danger being the cheeks and nose, the result of the combat was merely a flesh wound, which was sewn up on the field, and, as I have said before, was regarded with considerable pride.

The difference between the English and the German character is in nothing so distinctly traced as in the way of settling a quarrel: with us, when two school-boys fall out, they have a good stand-up fight in the Fives' Court, and, after pummelling each other to their hearts' content, shake hands and remain friends till they quarrel again. In Germany, the youthful mind is not contented without the solemn mockery of a duel, in which the combatants run very slight risk, but consider themselves no end of fellows for their bravery.

Perhaps, however, this is all for the best, and a wise provision of Nature: for considering the enormous quantity of beer they drink,





were it not for this occasional blood-letting German students would be in a very dangerIn our Universities, it is true, young men drink a great deal more than is



ous condition.



:



good for them but they work it off by boating, boxing, hunting, &c., while a German was never yet known to take voluntary exercise. His ambition, so long as he is at the University, is to lounge all day on a sofa, with a pipe as long as himself, and an enormous dog at his feet, thus wearing off the effects of the previous night's debauch, and preparing for his coming one. Take it altogether then, German students are not the very best society for a young Englishman desirous of promoting his education.

At the time when Herbert Leigh entered himself as a student, Heidelberg was honoured by the presence of several Englishmen, who indulged in all the eccentricities of the Germans, to which they added English solidity. The worst of these was indubitably a certain





Jones, who had originally been a student at Guy's, but had even been too reckless for that establishment. Being advised to retire for the benefit of his health, he persuaded his father to let him proceed to a German University, whence he would migrate to the Hotel Dieu, at Paris, and return home with an ample stock of resolutions and new recipes, which would make him great in the land.

Jones was the darling of the Germans : and the secret of his popularity was simple enough. His investigations into the interesting subject of half-and-half, during his Hospital walk, enabled him to swallow with impunity the thin German beer, which he impertinently called "swipes." He had been tried and not found wanting: an athletic student had challenged him to drink a "pope -a huge goblet containing six English pintsat one draught, and Jones had performed the operation with so much grace, that he was saluted as a master at once. His initiation





into the Suabe Club was rendered very easy, and he was passed to the rank of "Mossyhead" almost without a murmur.

This gentleman was the first of the English clique to whom Herbert was introduced in a manner singular enough. My hero was walking along the High Street, in one of those abominable hats which the British nation insists on wearing, I presume as a distinctive mark, when he received a decided crusher. Half stunned, he looked about vacantly for the cause of this unexpected assault, when he heard a voice, emerging apparently from the clouds, "I say, old fellow, just pick up that dog and bring him along here. Then we'll have a pipe."

Gazing up in the direction whence the voice came, Herbert noticed an unmistakeably English face, peeping out of a window on the fourth floor: so far satisfied, he looked on the ground, and saw a poodle, wagging his tail, and gazing upon him with wonderful gravity





:



If it could be possible, the dog was drunk: no other cause could produce that comic gravity which made him look like a judge on the bench but whoever heard of an intoxicated poodle? Anxious for a solution, Herbert stooped down to pick the animal up, but, as if quite uninjured by the fall, it ran off, turning round at times as if inviting Herbert to follow.

My hero accepted the invitation and soon reached the room, whence he was greeted by a hearty burst of laughter:

"Rather a queer way of forming an acquaintance, Mr Leigh," said the incorrigible medico: "but there's one comfort, you wo'nt be able to wear that chimney pot again. Hallo! Gamby, old fellow," he said, turning to the dog: "none the worse of your fall, eh? that comes of drinking in the morning, how often I have told you to imitate your master, and never get drunk before candlelight."

Herbert was perfectly astounded, and his





looks evidenced his feelings, for his host laugh



ingly explained:



"My name is Jones; this gentleman is Gambrinus, so called after the inventor of beer, and a worthy descendant of that king. He belongs to the Suabes-so do I; his only fault is a tendency for lush in the morning, and having imbibed a little too much at breakfast, he fell asleep on the window-sill and tumbled out."

At first Herbert thought Mr Jones must be chaffing him, but to remove all doubt that gentleman poured out a glass of beer, which the poodle drank "exactly like a Christian," as his master enthusiastically declared.

Herbert, then, had time to look round him and examine the penetralia of a German student's sanctum. Along the wall hung some thirty splendid porcelain pipes, painted with coats of arms, while half-a-dozen wash-leather bags evidenced the presence of the precious meerschaums. An escritoire was also covered with





valuable china cups and saucers, all bearing coats of arms, while over the chimney were an infinity of small sticking-plaster profiles in elegant gold frames. In another corner of the room were several china-mounted Malaccas holding guard over three or four pairs of jack boots, while over them hung saltier-wise two rapiers, a pair of pistols and a dagger, in the centre of which were the Corps cap, and the gay ribbon hanging in festoons.

To account for these coats of arms, I may mention that it is the fashion among students to interchange presents of this nature as a remembrance, and I still have a dozen china cups, only used on great occasions, which I obtained in this manner, during my salad-days. Sometimes the present assumes the shape of a pipe, or a walking stick, but the arms must never be absent. Hence, the enamel painters and porcelain dealers drive a thriving trade in Heidelberg.

Herbert soon grew on intimate terms with





Jones: in fact, no one could long remain "starchy" with that gentleman, and the sight of a huge jug of beer speedily consolidated their friendship. This was brought in by an extraordinary Mannikin, half boots, half professor, who wore one Wellington boot and a slipper, and whose attire was decidedly seedy. His conversation, though, was most amusing: while bowing thankfully for the twopennypiece handed him by Herbert, he interlarded his discourse with shreds of Greek and Latin, now and then cropping out in English, which he spoke most grammatically, though it was the hardest matter in the world to find out what he meant, for his accent was, to say the least of it, extraordinary. When he left the room, Jones explained that he had once been a professor, but giving way to habits of intoxication, he had gradually sunk to his present abject condition. "And so, Leigh, take warning by his fate: shun





drunkenness as you

Jones wound up his





lecture, washing out the bitter taste by a pull of at least a quart of beer.



:



One or two other students dropped in during the morning and it grew to dinner time in came the old man with a long wicker basket, containing some half-dozen dainty dishes, which a confiding landlord supplied to Jones for the sum of 8d. a day-when he got it. Finally, it was agreed that Herbert should join the Suaben corps and be matriculated the following evening. As all the English belonged to this, the crack corps, they formed a compact body and were held in reverence by the Germans. They had laid it down as a rule that, if compelled to fight, they would always go out with pistols, and this had a marvellous effect in quieting their adversaries.

After paying his matriculation fees, and selecting the lectures he nominally proposed to attend, Herbert was to all intents and purposes a German student, and received a long lecture from the Dean, half of which he could





not understand, as to his rights and privileges.

On the appointed evening Herbert was introduced by Mr Jones into a long, low, barnlike room, full of smoke and noise; when his eyes grew accustomed to the atmosphere, he found some hundred students seated at a long trestle table, at either end of which was a barrel of beer. So soon as the novice was introduced to the president, the doors were locked and the rules of initiation commenced.

They were so absurd that I will not insult my readers by describing them: suffice it to say that the main incident consisted in a dozen students dressed in velvet jackets, leathern breeches, and jack boots, riding solemnly on chairs round the room, singing the song Longfellow has familiarised us with-" What comes there from the Hill?" and brandishing their sabres. After various absurd ceremonies, they 'solemnly transfixed their caps, and the performance terminated with the usual "sala





mander rubbing," which deserves description.

After filling their long glasses half full of beer, the president gave the word, "Salamander one!" and they began frantically rubbing the heel of the glass on the table, which made an atrocious noise. At the word "Salamander three!" they emptied the glasses, and solemnly smote the table, in which several glasses were sacrificed. This over, Herbert was greeted member of the corps and sworn to defend it by all the means in his power.

This may appear very foolish, but it is not



:



cruel my readers, however, on perusing the following excerpt from a quaint German book, will see that this foolery has been decidedly improved on during the last century:



rr



Pennals, quasimodo-geniti, mother— calves, bacchants, slow-worms, owls, foxes, &c. ; such were the names by which the new-comers were greeted. The real students treated them with contempt, and regarded them as instru





ments for their amusement. Woe to the freshman who dared to appear in the student's dress, or with a sword by his side; the good clothes he brought from home were either purposely spoiled or he was obliged to wear an old shabby suit, in order that the freshman might thus be distinguished from the real student: he was forced to carry his cloak on his arm and wear slippers. If his monitor (selected, mind, by the authorities) thought proper to ill-treat his pupil, by kicking, abusing, or thrashing him, he was compelled to endure it silently; if the monitor wished to smoke or drink in his room, the novice must be his humble lacquey, and his books were always confiscated.

"After a year's novitiate, the Fox' was admitted to the ranks of the real students by a solemnly absurd ceremony. As soon as a sufficient number of freshmen were collected, the day for their admission was solemnly ap pointed. The president (an old student, gener;





ally selected by the rector) awaited his victims in a fantastic attire. All the accessories for the ceremony being prepared, and the students assembled, the president threw over the novices 'the gown of novitiate,' which rendered the same supremely ridiculous, for the novice looked like a hound and unreasoning brute;' with all the pathos of his responsibility the president addressed them, told them that with this dress they would have to doff all foolish, freshmen's tricks, and then tore the clothes from their backs. After this he combed their hair and cut it most unmercifully. Next came the ears, as the funnels through which learning entered,' and they were manipulated clumsily enough with a huge spoon. Furthermore, that the student might no longer be 'snarling and snappish or utter scandal,' the president took up a heavy pair of pincers. and plucked out a boar's tooth previously introduced into the freshman's mouth. Nails and fingers were rudely rubbed with a coarse





file, to render them fit for work, a mixture of blacking and acid smeared on the face, to represent a beard, which was removed by a wooden razor and the face wiped with a piece of coarse canvas. During all these ceremonies the Novice had retained his head-gear, adorned with two enormous horns, but this was now cut off with an axe, 'to kill his obstinacy. After this, all

the freshmen lay down in a circle and the





clumsy log was carved into a proper student' with planes, axes, and chisels. The conclusion was a bumper of wine mixed with salt, handed to the novice to drink, and his grimaces only heightened the fun. Sometimes a species of examination was interwoven with the discourse, and if the novice did not reply quickly, a sausage filled with sand was thrust into his mouth. The evening's amusement terminated with a supper, at the expense of the novices."

In reading this account, one is irresistibly reminded of the disgusting ceremonies that once accompanied" crossing the line," which, how





ever, our growing good sense has greatly modified. At present the German student initiation is merely a form, and an opportunity for drinking, and indeed, I believe, since I left Heidelberg and the corps have been broken up, these absurd scenes only live in memory.



:



It may be supposed that Herbert soon tired of this nonsense: all the benefit he derived from it was a rapid improvement in German. True, however, was the story about Gambrinus he really sat by his master's side at the table, and drank his beer. When he was overtaken he rolled over on his side, and had a snooze, waking up to begin again, without the slightest suspicion of a headache. How inferior in this respect is rational man to a poodle. If, as Lord Byron tells us, it is an attribute of man's rationality to get drunk, it is too bad that he should suffer such a bitter penalty for obeying a law of nature. It may be, however, that his lordship was wrong.

Otherwise, Herbert led a pleasant life





enough he heard nothing from Jessie, and hence concluded she had conquered her feelings toward him, and though the thought caused him a certain degree of bitterness, he balanced that against his release, and fancied he had the best of the bargain. Indeed, his time was too fully occupied in doing nothing for him to think about love matters: he was constantly making excursions with Dymoke and others of the English party, or visiting the castle, where he lay for hours on a settle, enjoying the glorious view.

Strangely enough, though, when he had given Jessie up eternally, I cannot imagine why he paid such frequent visits to Mannheim and walked before the house the Folgates had once inhabited. Besides, he was gradually falling into a listless, dreamy state, from which Bertie's animal spirits could not arouse him, and was doing nothing with a prospect for the future. That was cheerless enough: his small stock of money would be exhausted





before long, and then he did not know where to turn for a pound. However, "sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof" was his favourite motto, and he was only too glad to carry it out in its integrity, as it gave him a fair excuse for his sloth. German student life was beginning to exercise its pernicious influence already.

Had Herbert felt any inclination for lovemaking, I dare say he would have found plenty of opportunity for that pleasing employment among the German frauleins, who regarded the handsome young Englishman with considerable complacency. But somehow or another, he was suffering from a moral seediness in that respect; he had drunk too deeply of the intoxicating cup, and the natural result was a loathing, which he did not attempt to remove by the olden rule of "taking a hair of the dog that bit him." Hence, he never found Jones in the usual "window parade,"





which he indulged in as his daily dessert after meat, nor accepted the invitations offered him to the houses of the resident German nobility, and in that I cannot conscientiously blame him, for German soirées are the most insipid things in the world-diluted conversation washed down with sugar-water is no food for strong men, and he could not pump up any sympathy in the twaddle about court intrigues, which formed the staple of the conversation.

Thus, then, he mooned along, wanting some terrible blow to rouse him from his apathy; joining listlessly in the fun going on, and drinking more than agreed with him, but having no heart in the business. In fact, he required a wife to stir him up, and perhaps he had better have married Jessie at once, if he wished to become a good citizen, and deserve well of his country. But he had fallen into that depreciation of woman to which we are all apt to give way when our conscience tells us we have





inflicted a grievous wrong on some confiding being, who believed our protestations and has reaped the usual reward for her confidence.

Thus six months passed away, the glorious summer set in, the vines began to be clothed in their exquisite green, and all nature seemed rejoicing, though she awoke no responsive echo in Herbert's breast. At times, it is true, he shook off his apathy, and was thus witness of one of the most interesting scenes the Grand Duchy of Baden can display.

Towards the end of May, it is the fashion for all the musical societies through the length and breadth of the duchy to assemble at one common meeting place, and hold a concert, in which some 800 voices take part. We have been familiarized with the spectacle, on a much grander scale, by the Handel Festival, but in the days of which I write, Hullah had not yet exerted his influence, and taught us that we too are a musical nation, if we like to take the





trouble. In Germany, where singing begins with the rudiments of reading and writing, everybody is a musician, and thus these choruses gain a precision which demands from us months of rehearsal, and the general love of publicity pervading the Teutonic mind induces them to give concerts on every possible occasion. In the year I am writing of, Freyburg was the gathering place of the choruses, and to that quaint and picturesque town Herbert proceeded with his friends. The town was thronged, and there was some difficulty in procuring lodgings, but it afforded our hero some amusement to watch the picturesque groups that thronged the market-place, truly a mediæval gem, with the exquisite cathedral, the only complete specimen of gothic in Germany, rising heaven-ward in the



centre.





At Freyburg you find the finest types of the Black Forester; the women dressed in





dark linsey-woolsey petticoats and jackets, woollen socks and buckled shoes, while their heads are surmounted by bright yellow straw hats, precisely the same shape as ours, but selfmade. The men, on the other hand, are faithful to the traditional costume of their forefathers, and you might fancy them the identical peasants who attacked Moreau on his marvellous retreat through the Valley of Hell, Their long greased boots, leather breeches, red waistcoats, and clumsy over-coats with crown buttons, the whole surmounted by a threecornered hat, seem to remove the spectator for leagues from civilization, while the guttural patois in which they speak adds to the curiosity they excite.

Herbert was so much struck by the appearance of these Foresters, and anxious to form their acquaintance at home, that he willingly acceded to Bertie's wish that they should take a trip through the Black Forest, and walk by





easy stages to Baden, where they had promised to join Jones, who had received his quarter's allowance, and must immediately deposit it in the custody of Monsieur Benazet. Fortunately for Herbert, he was no gambler, and could visit that seductive spot unscathed, but I fancy that is more than nine-tenths of my countrymen can say.

Having buckled on their knapsacks, then, Bertie and Herbert started on their trip, and soon left the town far behind them. For some two hours they walked along the Valley of Hell, which well deserves its name, as it is a frowning gorge, begirt by heavy basaltic precipices, into which the sun only penetrates at rare intervals. The only living thing is a brawling stream, running merrily along to join Father Rhine; or a bird of prey roused from its stupor by the unwelcome approach of visitors, and which soars lazily into the air with an ominous and gloomy flapping of its wings.





So impressive was this grand solitude that the couple were not sorry when their first day's trip was over, and the little post-house of Steig welcomed them to its willing, though mercenary, arms.





CHAPTER IX.



THE BLACK FOREST.



STEIG, a solitary house situated at the extreme end of the Höllenthal, is a favourite stay of the English, who have a mania for climbing mountains, and this is the nearest point to the Feldberg, the highest mountain in the south of Germany, whence, on a clear day, Mont Blanc even may be seen. Hence my two young gentlemen had some difficulty in procuring any supper, for a Polyglottic courier had taken the whole house in possession for Milor Briggs and his family, and





it was only by a bribe to the cook that they were enabled to procure a dish of exquisite trout and egg sauce. Of course, as they did not bluster, they got the worst room in the house, and were quite looked down upon when it was found they were not going up the Feldberg. The landlord had, from long experience, grown to believe it a part of the English religion to climb the mountain-probably he regarded it as some penance imposed upon them; and when he found two of that race who declined to get up at four o'clock and trudge six miles to see the sun rise, he began to consider them suspicious characters, and begged Kätchen to keep a strict eye on the spoons.

As a man who has travelled nearly all over Europe, I may give my readers one piece of advice, that is, never to ascend mountains or monuments, however they may be tempted; they may depend on it that, if going up is bad, coming down is infinitely worse. It dislocates the knee-caps, and leads to a general feeling





of looseness, as if all your limbs were flying away from you under some centrifugal impulse.

After breakfast and paying a bill, which was drawn up on the English model, our travellers lit their pipes and ascended into heaven. I really mean no irreverence; they clomb a tremendously steep hill-side, and there found themselves in what is called heaven, in contradistinction to the hell beneath. The German notion of heaven is decidedly peculiar, for they saw before them but a few green meadows and potato patches. As for a forest, they could not see any; there certainly were a few clumps of gloomy pines in the distance, but otherwise the Black Forest sadly belies its name. Herbert, whose knowledge of that locality had been derived from Mrs Ratcliffe's romances, and who fancied he should find robber-bands crouching under the green wood tree, was ineffably disgusted, and walked on in solemn silence, but after a while he began to feel that there was something weird and strangely attractive about this





plateau. The first idea it struck him with was immensity, like that you feel upon the Russian steppes, and a vague notion of having lost his way assailed him, yet the compass told him they were all right, and he trudged on. Here and there they came across a châlet, built against the side of a hill, into which the kine entered by a draw-bridge, and on calling in to get some refreshment, they were hospitably treated with cheese and black bread, and the inevitable corn brandy.

There is something very picturesque about these houses; round three sides runs an open gallery, in which Indian corn and fish from the Lake of Constance are hung up to dry; on entering the common keeping-room, you find it insufferably hot, for the huge stove, built up of China plates with Scriptural subjects coarsely painted on them, and occupying one entire side of the room, is never allowed to go out, as the Forest is remarkably damp, owing to the innumerable rivulets which run





down the two water-sheds, towards the Danube and the Rhine. The furniture is plain and scant; but the inhabitants are very numerous, and, from the grandam of eighty down to the child of six, they are all busy at work.

In one corner they are husking corn, in another the spinning wheels produce their cheerful hum; while at the window the eldest girl is possibly painting clock faces, for the Black Forest is the great staple of the Dutch clock trade. Nearly all the clock makers we see about London streets come from that quarter of the world; they stay away for some seven years, till they have saved enough to buy an acre of land, then they return home to marry Bäbele or Gretchen, who has been spinning sheets and towels in preparation for their housekeeping.

I remember once being addressed in English by a young fellow, who asked me whence I came, when I turned into his châlet for a rest. When I told him Baden-Baden, he had





never heard of the place, but he knew London, and asked me if I had ever been in Goswell Street. What strange visions crowded around me! I thought of the immortal Pickwick, who once resided in that street, and saw from his bedroom window the celebrated fight in the Blue Coat School.* How strange that a wandering clock-maker should recall all this to me, at a moment when I was only thinking of the Black Forest and its quaint associations.

The young men pushed on to dine at Furtwangen, the seat of the clock-trade, and spent a couple of hours very pleasantly in examining the many proofs of industry around them; not a soul was idle except the priest, and he, on hearing of the arrival of visitors in this secluded place, immediately went to the inn to act as their cicerone. He had only one care in the world, poor old gentleman; the wooden church had been thrice burnt down, and he hoped to live to see a stone edifice erected in its place

* See "Men's Wives" in Thackeray's Miscellanies.





In fact, these fires are the curse of the Black Forest; owing to the eternal smoking, a spark catches in the flax, and presto a whole village is burnt down. The Government have tried in vain to check it by ordering tiles to be used instead of shingles for the roofs, but the German peasant is an obstinate animal, the most conservative in the world. He likes to stand

upon the ancient ways, and cannot understand why he should diverge from the "groove" in which his forefathers ran, and he offers a stubborn and generally successful resistance to all Government improvements.

Of course, the two young men could not refrain from contributing their quota, for which the priest gave them his blessing, and though they were Protestants, and Mr Spooner would turn up his eyes at the mere notion, I cannot see how the benediction of a good and sincerely pious man could do them any harm. Off they started again, and before nightfall reached the picturesque village of Triberg, with ts exquisite





waterfall-too much neglected by the usual



birds of passage.



Here they spent a most pleasant evening and rested very comfortably in home-spun sheets, although I have had before now to sleep in a manger in the Black Forest, and had my rest prematurely disturbed by the cattle pulling my bed from under me, and very comfortable I found it too. But my two young gentlemen were not flying from the tender mercies of the Hessian soldiers as I was, and hence could pick and choose their resting-place. From Triberg to Hornberg the road was through some exquisite scenery, the finest almost in the Black Forest, and the latter town is most picturesque, with its old fortalice frowning above it, though now converted into a peaceful brewery.

It happened to be Sunday, and they met crowds of peasants flocking in to Mass, making a station before some execrably carved Crucifix, with its tawdry ornaments of gilt nails, crown of thorns, &c., and then coolly marching into an





Down the



inn to enjoy a pot and a pipe. road they came rolling in their long wickerwork waggons, stopping to greet our travellers with a "God keep ye," or a " Christ be praised," to which they never failed to respond, "To eternity. Amen!" This did not, however, prevent the young and pretty girls taking a sly peep at the Englanders from under their kirtles, and showing their teeth with delight at the admiration their rosy cheeks and brown arms evidently excited.

Up hill and down hill-never finding level ground for a quarter of a mile, on our wayfarers proceeded till they reached the foot of the wildly desolate Kniebis, where vegetation seems to end, and grim-visaged war displays its truculent features in the shape of Martello towers, built to keep the French back in the revolutionary war, and now amply repaired for the same laudable purpose. Here it was that Alexander of Russia rested in 1813 to enjoy the magnificent view, and he was right, for it





has not its parallel probably in Europe for extent and grandeur.

The immediate fore-ground is occupied by pine-clad hills gradually sloping down to the Rhine valley, while on one side Melibocus, on the other Strasburg Minster, form the extremes of the picture. Through the centre of the landscape runs the paternal river, like a silver thread, while the back-ground is occupied by the Vosges, granulated by the vineyards, and throwing a dark shadow over the valley. Here and there the smoke of the charcoal-burners rises like incense to the sky, and the whole effect of the picture (when you turn your back on the Towers) is that of profoundest peace forming a strange contrast to the utter desolation around.

For nearly an hour the young men stood gazing entranced, for they had never seen anything to equal this before, but then the calls of appetite reminded them that they had got a long distance to go ere they reached their night





halt, and they hurried down the hill in the direction of Rippoldsau, a charming little watering place in the heart of a forest, and in great esteem among the humbler class of Germans, whom the prices at Baden are apt to terrify. Here, too, I may remark that trout are found in perfection, no small luxury in a country where fish is generally an unappreciable dainty.

The next day's journey was a succession of delights: after passing various small watering places, most romantically situated, Herbert and Bertie entered a gorge in the side of a steep mountain, and emerged on a wildly-enthralling scene. Before them a noisy brook came leaping down from the abyss in a succession of waterfalls, each grander than the other, and forming Stygian pools, in which huge trout merrily sported. Fortunately, a series of ladders and balustrades has been erected for the convenience of visitors, and seats placed at every spot of vantage, while on reaching the summit a forester's house stands close to the





ruined church of Aller-Heiligen, destroyed by the French in 1794.

Hence to the Mummelsee, a fairy lake on the top of a frightfully steep mountain, about which poets and romancers have woven many a bright web. The sentimental Germans have encased a large rock with stonework, and covered it with a soft layer of moss, but our tourists, fearing rheumatism more than desirous to enjoy the embraces of the Water Nymphs, declined to pass the night here, and pushed on to Achern, glad enough to rest and sup after their long walk.

Away again with early morn, past the statue of Marshall Turenne, marking the spot where the hero fell, and that of Erwin Von Steinbach, the builder of the Strasburg Minster, and they soon reached Baden-Baden, that city of delights, the fairest spot on earth, which was now in the height of its season, and had collected lords and lacqueys, rogues of high and





low degree, from all parts of Europe round the





I have given this detailed account of my hero's trip, as it has enabled me to describe a portion of Germany which is sadly neglected by tourists, although better deserving a visit than one-half the beaten track they follow each other in, like sheep after the bell-wether. Everyone travels now-a-days, and they ought leally to try and find out some new route, for that eternal trip up the Rhine must pall on the senses. By taking the rail to Strasburg at no increased expense, a country can be reached which possesses the peculiar charm of novelty, and in which a succession of delightful scenes may be visited, at an almost nominal outlay. Reader, take my advice, and when you are deciding on your summer trip, try the Black Forest for a change, and believe me you will not regret it. What shall I say now about Baden? Though I have written reams on the subject, I have not





exhausted it, for "time cannot change nor custom pall its infinite variety." Situated in the most glorious scenery, the town is just like a slice of Paris, transported bodily to the Black Forest, to form the delight of travellers, and give them the gratification of delicious air, combined with all the luxurious pleasures of the epicure capital.

And, then, after all, there is no excessive harm in the gambling rooms, although materfamilias may fear the temptation for her husband and grown-up sons. Now-a-days people merely set aside so much money for a continental tour, and if they lose it to M. Benazet, why, they must return with their purpose half executed. But the best apology I have lately met with is in "Trente et Quarante" by M. Edmond About, and I may be permitted to indulge in a quotation :

"I, Sir," (says a rich young Parisian in reply to a fierce diatribe against gambling,) “have had uncles enough to enable me to gain without





pleasure, and lose without regret. I began by playing in Paris, in the Bohemia of rich young men. When a man dines with his bachelor friends, it is the regular rule to sober oneself with the painted card-board. This hartshorn

always cost me more than if I bought it from the Apothecary. Sometimes I lost, sometimes I won: but as ladies were always of the party, I generally returned home without a farthing, wearied by a stupid night, with dirty nails, a heavy head, and yellow visage. I slept till five in the afternoon, and then recommenced the same dull round. After two or three years of this exercise, which gained me a detestable reputation, I formed an heroic determination. Play cost me on an average five hundred a year, without counting health, reputation, good temper, and all the friends who did not return, as they had borrowed money of me. I prefer losing that sum at Baden it is less compromising, less fatigu



:



ing, more healthy, and sooner over. I am sure





that the banque has no kings up its sleeves, and that it will not borrow of me at six in the morning five-and-twenty pounds to pay its cabfare. If by an impossibility I win, I pocket my gains without any shame, for I know that I am robbing no family of bread; and that if the banque lost a couple of thousand pounds, it would not think of blowing out its brains. If, on the contrary, it sacks my money, it will not go and boast of it all over Paris, and ruin my credit by saying that I am in difficulties."

There is much truth in these remarks, but equal truth in the objections that may be raised against such a line of reasoning. Indeed, the Government supplies the best argument against public gambling, for it allows no native to play except on the last day of the season, which may be regarded as a species of Saturnalia. In 1848 the National Parliament passed a decree suppressing the gambling houses through Germany, but when the Royalets regained their authority, they soon abrogated





a law which robbed them of the best part of their income. At any rate, this can be no excuse for them as they pander to vice for their own profit.



:



On looking up Jones, whom Herbert naturally first sought at the rouge-et-noir table, he found that worthy young gentleman in high glee, for he had already won six hundred pounds, and was in a vein, he declared. To him the scenery of Baden presented no attractions the very leaves on the trees seemed to him so many bank-notes signed "J. Ferraby," and any moment lost from the table was a fortune wasted. However, he so far listened. to Herbert's admonitions that he took him off to his lodgings, when he begged him to make a choice among the countless articles strewn about. Mr Jones had, in fact, laid in an enormous store of valuable rubbish, in sheer despair at not being able to spend his winnings fast enough. Here was a shop full of Bohemian glass of every colour in the rainbow;





and delightfullittle knicknacks from Switzerland, so fragile that they will not bear carriage; a pile of agates and jewellery, silks and satins, and the last Parisian fashions for fair friends at Heidelberg. Amidst all this litter were empty Champagne bottles, heaps of notes in the most elegant feminine French writing, requesting the loan of twenty Louis, as the writers were disappointed in their remittances, or pious appeals for relief for the suffering poor, for a winner at the table is ever marked down as a prey.





I am glad you have arrived, old boy," Jones said, affectionately, "for I am going to give a dinner to twenty at five pounds ahead this evening, at the Kursaal, and I hope you and Bertie will join us."





"Oh! at eight, and to make sure, I have paid the bill already, so, if I lose, that's safe

at any rate. But, come, it's time to go back to the Rooms."





Off they went to the Conversations' House, and Jones began playing recklessly. At first luck stuck to him and he won large sums, Herbert in vain trying to draw him away, while there was yet time. Other players backed the mad Englishman, and matters began to look serious for the Banque. All at once, however, there was a check: and the cards turned up in the most perplexing manner for the players. First red won three times, and when the gentlemen began backing it, it changed to black, then, back again to red, in short, it was impossible to follow the vein. Of all the players Jones was the worst treated: his pockets, so lately suffering from plethora, sank to the most modest dimensions, and, though he might win a small stake, directly he backed his luck for a large amount, it deserted him. At last, most of the players gave up despair, but Jones went on, more savagely than ever, for he wished to force his luck, and that is certain ruin.



in





At length he staked his last louis d'or, which followed the rest, and he looked the picture of despair. All at once he whispered Herbert, "Wait here, old fellow, I'll be back directly; " he hurried off, and indeed returned very shortly with a heap of money in his hand with which he recommenced punting. Before long he found himself without a shilling, and drawing Herbert by the sleeve, he walked away from the table, gently whistling, "All is lost now!"

"Well, old boy," Herbert said, cheerfully, "it is getting on for dinner time, and I'm deuced hungry. Besides, I'm curious to taste a five pound dinner; I never reached that pitch yet."

 If you wait till you dine with this child, you'll run a risk of starvation."



Why so?"



"You saw me come back with a lot of





Well, I sold Weber his dinner back at

half-price, and as I dare not face my guests, I shall be off to Heidelberg. Pay my hotel bill like a good fellow, and post it to yours faithfully, &c.; by the way, you can sell off all those rattle-traps, they 'll fetch something."

"But you'll want some tin to pay your fare," said Herbert, pulling out his purse.

"Oh no! I can manage that all right. I never pay my fare back."

"How do you contrive, then?"

"Why, I book myself as an unpaid parcel to my landlord. Ta-ta, old boy, he is sure to take me out of pawn."

And the incorrigible youth walked lightly off, leaving Herbert lost at his audacity. He knew he owed the worthy Philistine a heavy bill, which he had faithfully promised to pay out of his coming allowance, and that was all in M. Benazet's strong box. Then, he added insult to injury, by booking himself as a parcel to the worthy tradesman !





At any rate, Mr Jones must have tried the scheme before, for it was perfectly successful; his landlord released him, and shook his head mournfully at the news that the money was all gone. Still, he had an implicit faith in Englishmen, and accepted his lodger's chaff with a face of patient resignation, which was good for another quarter's lodging.

Herbert faithfully carried out his views as regarded the sale of the knicknacks, but he found a marvellous difference between buying and selling. Articles sold Mr Jones as charming novelties were found to be out of taste and fashion, and he could only get about the tenth part of their value for them.

I leave my readers to imagine what a commotion Mdle. Trinchen of the Heidelberg Theatre made, when her Jones returned without any of the presents he had promised her. Judicious flattery, however, combined with a few showy presents from the stores of the much-suffering tradesmen, consoled her, and





the storm gradually subsided into a gentle shower, through which a rainbow of delight As for Mr Jones, he held a



found its way.



confidential council with Gambrinus, and they came to the conclusion that it was about time to cut it.





CHAPTER X.



A GERMAN CHASSE.



AMONG the various amusements by means of which Herbert attempted to kill time and drown his thoughts, the most successful was what is generically called the chasse, a nondescript term, comprising hunting and shooting, though both in a degree. He had not, it is true, been much accustomed to either sport at home, but he managed to pass muster very well in Germany, for he could ride decently, and knew the butt end of the gun from the muzzle. Bertie, on the other hand, was a devoted sportsman, and it was with great





satisfaction he informed Herbert that he had received an invitation for them both to assist in a grand battue, which was to come off in the vicinity of Ettlingen.

To the practical English mind there is something extremely comical in the toiling after pleasure which the Germans display. Whenever they are going to have a day's shooting they dress for the part with as much anxiety as if the correctness of their costume would bring the red-legged partridges down. The first thing is a ferocious green wide-awake hat adorned with cocks' feathers, and a bright coat of the same colour. Huge boots reaching to the knee, and in which it would seem impossible to walk a mile, are then pulled on, but this is far from being all. Next, the noble sportsman dons an enormous bag, decorated with whip-cord made into most fanciful patterns, and slung by a cord round his neck, as well as a huge muff, intended to keep his hands warm. Add to this a double





barrelled gun, worn en bandoulière, a shot-pouch and powder flask, all hanging loosely and clattering as the sportsman moves along, and you have the most unsportsman-like object you can well conceive.

Every now and then our papers fall foul of the battues which our noblemen institute for the purpose of thinning the game in their preserves, and you generally see each winter a paragraph headed "Sporting butchery," or some other equally highly spiced comment. If the writers, however, had ever been present





at, say a Kesseljagd" or kettle hunt in Germany, where hundreds of hares are knocked over in the course of the day, they would be inclined to alter their tone. Germans have only one thought when out shooting; they are essentially "pot-hunters," and care little how or where they hit the game, so long as they take it home.

Bertie and Herbert proceeded to their hospitable inviter's residence, which they





reached on the evening prior to the battue, and had reason to feel pleased with country life in Germany. The Baron von Backstein had lived for many years in England, where he had married a blonde daughter of Albion, with a very decent fortune, and had retired to his estate to enjoy himself after the manner of his forefathers. He kept up quite a feudal state, with an army of foresters and game-keepers, and indeed his estate was enormous and covered with every description of game.

In the morning the company assembled, and numerous long wicker-work baskets on four wheels were brought out into the court-yard, into which the guns and dogs were placed, and the company mounted on the seats. My two young friends had the special honour of being driven by the Baron, who liked every opportunity for airing his broken English, and they soon arrived at the forest, where they were to enjoy the pleasure of shooting roebuck.

I confess, however, that to the English





mind there is something slow in standing for a couple of hours behind a tree waiting for the special game to come, with strict orders not to fire at anything else, however temptingly close it may draw, through fear of scaring the timid game. The dogs were taken round to the other side of the forest in the meanwhile, and, accompanied by a party of beaters, walked in the direction of the sportsmen, driving all the game before them, within reach of the



guns.



Herbert had one satisfaction besides smoking, for his host had left a game-keeper with him, to load his gun for him, after the fashion he had found obtaining in England, and he was a most edifying camarade. His reverence for his master was only equalled by his detestation of poachers, and many ghastly stories did he tell Herbert of the internecine warfare he carried on with the poachers.

"Do you see that white stone out yonder?"





he remarked, after various anecdotes more or

less bearing on the subject.

Herbert nodded assent.

"Well! one of them sleeps there,” he said, significantly tapping his gun, as if to indicate that he had killed him.

"What! do you mean to say you shot him?'





"And why not, your honour? He would have shot me if I had not been first."

"But why not take him prisoner, and hand him over to the authorities ?"

"Oh! I see," the forester remarked, with a sigh of sympathy, "your honour is not aware of the custom prevailing among us. But I will tell you the story.

"His name was Suabian Hans, and his family has lived by poaching in these forests for several generations past, just as mine have been foresters. His father killed my father, and of course it was my turn to shoot him. I





followed his track for years, and at last one

dark afternoon I came upon him, breaking up roebuck. I bade him surrender him



a young roebuck.



self my prisoner, but he snatched up his gun.

What more natural than that I should shoot him down? His son will probably shoot me, and so we shall be quits."

Herbert was lost in surprise at this Jedburgh law, which seemed so utterly at variance with the gentle habits of the Germans, but the forester continued :

"For many years it has been the custom for poachers and foresters to take the law in their own hands. For a time they live in a truce with each other, but before the end they are sure to fall out, and, then, blood is certain to flow."

"But you say that you know all these poachers; then why not take a strong party out and capture them?"

"And our honour, noble sir? we should be disgraced if we demanded any assistance than





that of our own right hand. Surely you would not suffer the poachers to triumph at the thought that we were afraid of them?”

"Why, then," Herbert remarked, feeling rather uncomfortable, "you go in fear of your life at any moment."

"I know it," the forester replied, calmly. "I saw Hans' son prowling about the forest the other day, and I may receive his bullet at any moment, but what is written is written."

"But do these confounded poachers never interfere with the Baron? Why does he not expel them ?"

"Our noble Baron is of too old a family to try and interfere with a custom handed down from our forefathers. Besides, they do not do much injury to the game, for we have so much of it. But, list, I hear a rustling in the leaves. The roe-deer are approaching. Be on your guard, your honour, and mind and shoot the buck. You will know him by his guarding the does, as well as by the length of his horns."





Herbert looked eagerly into the forest, but could see nothing: the sound of hammers being set all around him, seemed to indicate that the rest of the party were on the alert. The forester pulled him behind a fir tree, and he awaited in anxious expectation till the moment for firing arrived.

Herbert, fortunately for his nerves, had not to wait long: the shrubs parted, and out stalked a stately roebuck, followed by his harem. He gazed around and stamped his foot as if defying his enemies, but the sound of the barking dogs quickened his movements, and he cantered gracefully down the glade.

"Give it him behind the ear, your honour," the old forester hissed in Herbert's ear.

Herbert obeyed the injunction, and, almost too excited to take aim, pulled the trigger. The buck gave a tremendous leap in the air and fell dead. The startled herd scattered along the glade and were dropped in succession by the rest of the party.





The forester bounded forward to break up the fallen animal. Laying down his heavy gun, he drew his couteau de chasse, and began gralloching the buck. Herbert was watching him attentively, when his eye was caught by the glittering of a barrel in an adjoining thicket: but, before he could put the forester on his guard, a shot was fired, and the forester fell back, only able to groan, "Lord, receive my soul!"

In a second Herbert was on the track of the assassin, who led him an arduous chase through the thick brushwood. It was only the noise of the cracking twigs that enabled Herbert to follow him at all, and he was almost on the point of giving up the chase in despair, when he met a party of the beaters. Hastily telling them what had occurred, and bidding them continue the chase in the direction he indicated, he returned to the fallen man. When he reached the spot again with some difficulty, he found the shooting party collected





round the body, which they had lifted on a rude litter formed of interwoven branches. Herbert was delighted to find that the old man was only severely wounded: his first word on regaining consciousness was "Is he caught?" and, on being answered in the negative, he evidenced great satisfaction.

Herbert then hurriedly told the Baron what had occurred, and his hopes that the murderer would be captured.

"Hush! do not let Adam hear what you say, for it will make him unhappy," the Baron whispered; then in a louder voice ordered the game-keepers to carry the old man to the Château.

"Fortunately, I have now an opportunity of stopping this blood-feud, which is a disgrace to our country," he said to Herbert, "for Adam is unmarried, and has no son to perpetuate it. But see, here come the beaters, and with a prisoner, I fancy."

Herbert was lost in surprise when he saw





two sturdy fellows dragging along a boy of about twelve years of age, who walked doggedly toward the Baron. Still, there could be no doubt of his guilt, for he had been caught redhanded, and one of the beaters was carrying the recently-discharged gun, with which the crime was perpetrated.

"Bind him, and carry him off to Karlsruhe," was the Baron's curt command.

The foresters and game-keepers regarded each other in amazement.

"Yes," the Baron continued, "I have determined on stopping this senseless system of revenge; Adam has no son to take his place, and this boy is an orphan. A few years of imprisonment in the house of correction will, I trust, render him a useful citizen to the state, and Adam will be spared the constant alarm under which he went about."

There was some hesitation, but an old man at length stepped forward as spokesman for the party.





"Your Excellency is doubtless in the right," he said, timidly, as he stroked down his silver hair," and who are we that we should cavil at his Excellency's commands ? still, if I might be permitted to speak-"

Well!" the Baron said half angrily, for he foresaw much opposition.

"It has long been the custom, your Excellency is well aware, for a feud to go on between the foresters and poachers in this forest; and never has the law been called upon to settle our quarrels," the old man added, drawing himself proudly up. "Still, we should be sorry to see little Hans go to prison because he has obeyed his instincts, and if your Excellency will intrust him to me, I will make man of him."

"Fritz has spoken well!" the other foresters said, clashing the butts of their guns on the ground.

"There you see, my friend," the Baron said, turning to Herbert, "how deeply rooted pre





judices are among these men.-Bring the boy



here."



The boy came up and looked boldly in the Baron's face.

"Well, you young ruffian, are you not sorry for the murder you have committed?"





Why should I be?" the lad asked simply, "Adam killed my father, and it was my duty to kill him."

The Baron knew too well how hopeless any reasoning would be upon a lad who had no notion of right and wrong, so he acceded to Fritz's request, and he and the boy went off together almost affectionately.

"Well! I suppose I must put up with it," the Baron said, with a smile, " or I should have a rebellion among my fellows. As soon as Adam has recovered I will send him off to my brother's, in the Oberland, till the boy is tamed. Perhaps schooling and the exhortation of the pastor will have a due effect upon him. Let us hope for the best!





For Herbert the whole pleasure of the chasse was now destroyed, and he could not be induced to join the others in the onslaught they made upon the partridges. He, therefore, walked alone to the château, where he had the satisfaction of finding that the old forester's wound was not at all alarming.

Such blood-feuds as I have described were far from uncommon prior to 1848, but with the revolution and the wanton destruction of game on the abolition of the game laws, the foresters' occupation was gone, for every peasant turned poacher. I saw, more than once on the Strasburg market-place, upwards of five hundred roe-deer exposed for sale, at prices averaging from half a crown to ten shillings. They had been shot in the Honourable Ferdinand St John's preserves, at Rust, in the Oberland, and this was the way in which the ungrateful peasants requited him for the incessant kindness he had shown them during many years of occupancy.





The next day was devoted to wild cock shooting, at the top of the mountains, the party only consisting of Herbert, Bertie, and the Baron, for this is a sport which it needs a thorough sportsman to enjoy. The bird known as the Auerhahn is rapidly dying out in Germany, thus following the example of the Auerochs; a few preserves are still kept up, but the birds have become very shy and inaccessible. They perch on the fir trees at the top of the highest mountains, each cock bird having some half dozen henbirds, and the only chance of shooting them is by catching them at roost before day-break. As this necessitates rising in the dark, or not going to bed at all, it requires to be a very earnest admirer of sport to enjoy the fun.

As for Herbert, I confess, to my sorrow, that he did not see the slightest joke at being dragged out of bed at the smallest of hours, and breaking his shins over stumps of trees, as they scaled the mountain side. And al





though he had the exquisite satisfaction of putting a charge of swan-shot into a huge unwieldy bird, which fell like a stone at his feet, all he derived from the exploit was a few of the tail feathers, for, when he tried to eat the bird after it was cooked, he found the meat intolerable. To my mind the Auerhahn bears considerable affinity to the American turkey-buzzard, although it preys on more dainty fare.

Another day was devoted to partridge shooting, the only kind of sport in which I think the Germans excel us.



pointed if you do not



Here you are disap



flush a covey in every stubble field you cross: but in Germany they are scarce, and very strong on the wing, and you never leave a covey till you have killed the last. As, too, German dogs have a mania for roving, and ridicule all attempts to bring them to heel, you have a very fair day's exercise before you have filled your bag. But,





after all, is not that the only excuse which can be offered for such a waste of time?

After a week of this amusement, such as it was, Bertie and Herbert returned to Heidelberg loaded with game, which they were compelled by the Baron to accept. Glorious was the spread they gave their friends in consequence, and even Mr Jones recovered a little under the seductive influences of Perdrix au chou and Marcobrünner. But it was only a transient ray of felicity: so soon as the digestive process began, Jones grew as melancholy as before.

"Why, what on earth is the matter, old boy?" Herbert said, after several ineffectual attempts to cheer his usually extra-vivacious friend. "Has Trinchen proved unkind, or are you very unhappy because the Rooms at Baden-Baben are shut up?'





"Bother the Rooms," Jones said sulkily, you oughtn't to chaff a fellow in that way.





Why! I have n't a rap, even if the gambling were going on; if I had, I should be off to Homburg pretty quick. But here's a pretty affair: my father thinks I have been long enough at Heidelberg, and expects me home by Christmas. My passport is in the hands of the police, and I owe nearly two hundred pence."



up,



"Well, old fellow, the governor will stump if you appeal affectionately to him."

"Of course, I'm going to try it, but it will be no go. Besides, some of my creditors have been talking in the most impertinent way of expecting payment, and threatening me with karker. I shall have to punch their heads all round. I see that plainly enough. Shan't I, Gamby?





And the faithful dog responded by an intense whine, as if he were already being led to prison, far from the delights of the club room and the choppes of beer.





Jones' melancholy was not proof against this appeal, and he burst into a hearty roar of

laughter, which was the signal for a jolly night of it.





CHAPTER XI.



MR JONES' EXODUS.



RABELAIS, the philosopher, is best known to English readers by that bad quarter of an hour which follows every meal, namely, that in which the bill has to be paid. This stage of his existence Mr Jones was now entering on as we have seen from his own confession, his creditors were beginning to throw out gloomy hints about imprisonment. Even the patience of a German tradesman is exhausted at last and when we bear in mind that Jones met all their applications for payment by the choicest vernacular slang, it is not surprising





that they should pluck up a spirit and insist on settlement.

Now Jones had no right to be in debt: his allowance would have comfortably kept halfa-dozen German students: but he was of expensive habits, and the German subdivision of coinage generally makes an Englishman spend it recklessly. Besides, if he had possessed an Eldorado, it would not have resisted the combined fascinations of the Baden gambling table and the young lady attached to the theatre.

In spite of all his recklessness, Mr Jones had not the slightest inclination to be locked

up in a prison for an indefinite period, and he had carried out his design of applying to the Governor by going through the round-about process of asking his sister to ask his aunt to ask his mother to ask his father to pay his debts. The result of this ascending scale was, however, far from satisfactory: the old gentleman wrapped himself in the mantle of wounded





dignity, and declined to sacrifice a shilling: his son had run into debt from no just cause, and hence he must get out of it as best he could. Things were decidedly growing critical with the young gentleman: without his passport, which was in the hands of the police, he could not take a step beyond the frontier, and if he remained at Heidelberg he would probably be locked up.

Jones did not possess the acuteness of a Berlin student, who managed to live, and that right well, for a whole term on a single Louisin this way. So soon as he entered his new lodgings, he sent down the gold coin with orders for the servant to fetch him some groceries to the extent of a shilling. During the day he made up the amount, and changed it for another Louis d'or, with which the same game was carried on the next morning, and so on for a week. By that time the landlord was fully convinced he had a Mi-lor living in his house-a man who spent a Louis a day was a





rarity, hence, he humbly presented himself before his tenant, and begged the Lord Count not to think of paying for such trifles. He should be happy to supply them, and would send in the bill when the quarter's rent was due. Perhaps the old rogue hoped to make some profit by the transaction: if so, he was disappointed, for his lodger managed to disappear with his traps, just before the quarter was up, and as Berlin is a large city, I have no doubt he repeated the experiment several times.

At length Mr Jones formed his resolution and electrified Herbert by telling him he would be off to England in three days. This resolution the more surprised Herbert, for during the last six weeks Jones had been nearly invisible and was currently supposed to be writing a book, showing the advantage of German student-life, and his tradesmen had been asking anxiously whether his high well-born Herr Jonès von Jonès were ill, as he was never now





seen at his accustomed haunts, or casting his sheep's eyes at the windows over the shops where the buxom lasses were wont to sit, engaged with their interminable knitting. The poodle might be observed now and then, taking an airing, and maintaining his acquaintance with the fair sex, but he too looked pale and woe-begone, as if anticipating his master's sad fate. Hence Herbert naturally asked:

"What, has the governor relented and sent the tin ?





"Not a half-penny: I have just five pounds to get home with, and that is all I am possessed of."





Well, I cannot understand your meaning."

"Come and dine with me at four to-day, at the Prince Carl: I give a farewell feed to all old friends."

Herbert naturally assumed that Jones' creditors had taken his promise to pay in lieu of cash, and trusted to an Englishman's honour. However, it was no concern of his, so at the





appointed hour he joined the party, which spent the evening very merrily: Jones had quite recovered his spirits, while Gambrinus, to judge by the frantic way in which he wagged his tail, evidently knew all about it.

At length, after a tremendous bowl of punch, in honour of old England, Jones proposed a general removal to the theatre, where he had engaged a private box. So they all agreed, and Jones emerged from the Hotel, bearing a heavy bag, which he told Herbert contained refreshments. For a time all went on peacefully enough, until Jones opened the bag and began throwing most unpleasantly smelling apples at the prima donna.

Cries of "Shame!" were heard from all parts of the theatre, but Jones, the indomitable, continued his fire till he had thoroughly cleared the stage. Of course, when the mischief was done, the gendarmes interfered. The first who entered the box was scientifically floored by Jones' right hand, and it took half-a-dozen





men, armed to the teeth, before he could be dragged off to prison.

Herbert was certainly very much puzzled as to the meaning of this sudden outbreak, but at length concluded that, owing to private information he had received, Jones preferred a criminal to a civil prison. The next morning my hero was summoned to court as witness to the assault, and, on entering, found Jones, guarded by two ferocious gendarmes, who evidently regarded him as a dangerous animal.

The judge then took his seat and began a long and learned harangue, addressed to no one in particular. Starting from the old Roman law of assault and battery, the learned gentleman hunted it down through the mediaval ages, and ended by reading the penal code, which suggested a punishment only short of hanging, for an assault on Majesty in its representative, a policeman. Having thus brought the prisoner into a proper frame of





mind, the judge heard the witnesses, and then asked Jones what he had to say in his defence.

Strange to say, the fright appeared to have had an extraordinary effect on Jones, for he had utterly forgotten his German, although allowed to be the best scholar of the English corps. Hence he doggedly replied, in English, that he understood none of their confounded jargon; and if they had anything to say to him, they must talk in good, wholesome English.

This rather astounded the judge, for, if there were any truth in the evidence, Jones had been using very bad language the previous evening, with an aptitude most creditable to his industry in learning that part of the German tongue; but when Jones was requested to explain this decrepancy, he said, that as for swearing, that was easy enough to pick up, and, as a specimen, he gave the judge about five minutes of the sharpest and most stinging "Million stars, thunder weathers," and so on, ever yet heard in the solemn halls of justice.





The judge was so perplexed that he cast round the hall for an interpeter, and, his eye falling on Herbert, he begged him to assist him, which Herbert, however, politely declined, thinking that Jones had troubles enough already without trying to augment them. Hence the judge was obliged to fall back on his own reminiscences of the Ficar of Vakefield,' the





English text book in Germany, and a most amusing mess of it he made, as I will attempt to show :

"What hast thou to say, Herr Jonès von Jonès, on account of dis most unwarrantable and most hochly to be deprecatät attack on His Most Transperrent Majestät, the Gross Duke von Baden, in de person of his honorable pollisman, Carl Spechenschneider, de present prisoner: No-Himmel! what shall I say, -dis complainant ?"

Unawed by this pathetic invocation, Jones replied gruffly: "I never hit the Grand Duke: never had the chance-worse luck!"





"What dost thou say, wretched man?" the judge interposed, his hair standing on end at the thought of such treason-"thou wouldst consult his Majesty, and " (here he spluttered tremendously) "oh!-I cannot find de outlet my words. I am suffocating with righteous



-for





At this point Jones thought it advisable to make a tremendous effort to leap from the dock, shouting "You old scoundrel! and grand was the tableau when the gendarmes actually fell upon him and bore him to the ground. Gradually recovering from his alarm, the judge continued in his most solemn accents :

"For dis proven and most-to-be reprehended deliction, thou shall be damnified to Karker for de six months on de bread and water."

"No you don't, old fellow!" Jones the incorrigible replied, in a sardonic voice, "I am an Englishman, and you daren't lock me up, Try it, and I'll write to Lord Palmerston, my





Here the judge turned very pale, for in those days the mere name of our combustible War Minister excited an intense alarm on the Continent. So much was this the case that I remember a popular distich, which was continually employed :

"And if the devil has a son,

His name is surely Palmerston."

In a word, our Premier's name was employed in Germany, much like that of Malbrook in France, to frighten little children into good behaviour. There's an honour for a



Statesman!



At length the judge continued, "Vass is dat? thou speakest not de trut. My lor Pummistone is von honourable man, and shall not be friends with a worth-nothing like thou. But vait for a vile."

A hurried consultation then ensued between the judge and his chief clerk, after which the





dread functionary returned to his judicial seat, red as a turkey-cock, and altered his decision in the following manner :

"For dis crime thou shalt pay into the box of the poor the sum of sixty gulden, and shalt remember dat dis most honourable court shall have behaved toyouwith de most admirable clemency as being von Inglisman, who assumes de right præscriptive to beat de polissman, as I shall have read in the Ficar of Vakefield."

This was certainly a remarkable degree of clemency, but Jones did not appear to appreciate it, for he coolly replied, "I can't pay, old boy, I have n't a halfpenny-you'd better let me off at once, and save good breath."

Another consultation, and then the judge said with tearful eyes, as if he were condemning the prisoner to certain death:

"Herr Jonès von Jonès, thy obstinaticity compels me to have recourse to de last measure of my full power. Thou hast abused thyself of the patience of dis honourable court, and I am





sorry, derefore, to pass dis severe sentence. Hear to me! for thy offence, thou shalt be obligated to leave dis lofely land of Tchermany, and be of retour to thy brumous Angelland. In three days thou must be beyond the frontier !" Ah, bah!" Jones replied in the most contemptuous manner, "if I wanted to, I could leave your humbugging country in half an hour. Ta-ta, old chap, till we meet again!









And the criminal quitted the court under the guardianship of the two gendarmes, who would not leave him till the sentence was carried out. As he passed Herbert, he perpetrated a most astounding wink, and added, “A new way to pay old debts, eh?"

It was quite true: the criminal law would overrule any civil process; and the majesty of the court would be vindicated at the expense of a few paltry tradesmen. The scheme was decidedly original, though it might at the first blush appear scarcely honest. However, that





Jones could safely be left to settle with his own



conscience.



In the evening Herbert proceeded to Jones' rooms, which he found crammed with students, who were laughing most heartily at the morning's scene, in which the gendarmes cordially joined. They were in Elysium: Jones treated them nobly, and they doubtlessly wished the occupation were to last three weeks instead of three days. Even Gambrinus appeared to enjoy the spirit of the adventure, for he snuzzled affectionately round the policemen, instead of taking a piece out of their calves, which was his usual way of greeting an enemy. So highly was the poodle trained, that he scented a dun ere he reached the first landing, and by a significant growl enabled his master to act on the defensive.

The evening's amusements were unpleasantly interrupted now and then by a heart-broken dun, coming to implore the clemency of his victor, but Jones put a stop to that by making





a gendarme useful for once, and placed him outside the door with a bottle of Schnaps to repel the invaders. Before long, however, the two gendarmes were so overtaken by the mixture they had imbibed, that Jones found no difficulty in breaking his guard and joining the Suabes, with whom a very pleasant night was spent.

The next day will be long recollected in Heidelberg, as one of general mourning; for, apart from his grieving creditors, Jones was a great favourite in the town, and his liberality had gained him golden opinions from all manner of men. A tremendously long procession went to the railway station, Jones marching at the head, between his two gendarmes, and the shout raised as the train moved away must have struck like a dagger to the heart of the judge, who with Rhadamanthine sternness had inflicted such a heavy blow in his native town. Herbert too went with the incorrigible to





Mannheim, and said good-bye to him on board the Rhine boat, and as he squeezed his hand felt he could have better spared a better



man.



Still, I am bound to add, for the credit of the English name, that the paternal Jones, on hearing from his son the ruse he had employed to evade his debts, was deeply indignant, and his pride effected what no supplication would have brought about. He immediately set out for Heidelberg, and paid up the debts in full, while his son was turned out to grass as assistant surgeon to a country workhouse, where I may safely leave him for the present.

With Jones' departure, Herbert began to grow duller than ever; Bertie, too, felt a longing for honest half-and-half, and thought about going back to Oxford, which was not so slow as Heidelberg after all, and Herbert was casting about as to what he should do with





himself, for his money was nearly exhausted, and he, poor fellow, had nothing to call him to England.

After due cogitation, he decided on returning to Wiesbaden and giving lessons in English to any pupils he could procure, and there await the moment when that traditional something should turn up which he had been so long expecting.

He met with considerable success on his return to Wiesbaden: for there are always several gentlemen with "large small families" spending the winter in that town, and they were glad enough to secure the services of an English University-man for their children. He also formed a connexion among several leading German families, who condescended to repay his lessons at the rate of 1s. 8d. per hour, but made a great show by handing him on every lesson a piece of card, with a huge armorial seal stamped upon it.

By and bye too he had the crowning honour





of being appointed English tutor to one of the young princesses at the munificent rate of 5 francs an hour, but as he had always to appear at the Palace in new white kids and polished boots, he only profited in repute by this engagement. Still he made his way gradually, and felt far easier in mind than he had done for some time past, as honest occupation and the consciousness that he was supporting himself by his own toil enabled him to sleep comfortably.

More pleasant still was the revulsion in his mind when he now thought of Jessie; he began to see that he had behaved very badly to her, and would have given worlds to recall the past. Even now he felt how happy hé should be if he had her to share his humble

fortunes, and was twenty times on the point of setting out to renew his addresses to her, when his miserable pride prevented him.

He could not face Blanche, or endure the haughty glance of contempt with which she





would have met her recreant lover-hence he procrastinated as usual, and gradually grew a wiser and better man, as his heart became purified of its bitter feelings, and he appreciated the necessity of working in some shape or other, which accompanies every man into the world.

Perhaps the only cause of regret he felt in his altered life was the modest way in which he was compelled to live; he occupied two rooms, for which he paid a pound a month, and the officers of the Nassau Artillery were kind enough to allow him to mess with them at sixpence a-day. For this sum he had soup, bouilli, and salad, another sort of meat and vegetables, all admirably cooked, and served up with certain pretentions.

His evening was generally spent in the theatre, where the best operas were performed, very creditably, as the establishment is supported by Government, and, by subscribing for the month, the admission to the stalls only





would have met her recreant lover-hence he procrastinated as usual, and gradually grew a wiser and better man, as his heart became purified of its bitter feelings, and he appreciated the necessity of working in some shape or other, which accompanies every man into the world.

Perhaps the only cause of regret he felt in his altered life was the modest way in which he was compelled to live; he occupied two rooms, for which he paid a pound a month, and the officers of the Nassau Artillery were kind enough to allow him to mess with them at sixpence a-day. For this sum he had soup, bouilli, and salad, another sort of meat and vegetables, all admirably cooked, and served up with certain pretentions.

His evening was generally spent in the theatre, where the best operas were performed very creditably, as the establishment is supported by Government, and, by subscribing for the month, the admission to the stalls only





averaged sevenpence a-night.



His supper



and a pint of wine rarely exceeded tenpence, and his only extravagance was in cigars, which absorbed more than his meals.

Still, he was enabled even to save a little money, and consoled himself with the thought that he was hoarding it up for Jessie. It was wonderful how the girl had woven herself round his heart, and in these his days of adversity Herbert began really to feel that passion which, I think, he had before feigned so well.

Thus the winter passed away: Christmas was celebrated with its trees, its geese stuffed with chestnuts, its Sauerkraut and sausages. Herbert's connexion was spreading quickly, and he was beginning to feel quite ready to resign himself for life to his new occupation, when a letter reached him that perfectly unhinged him and upset all his plans.

The letter had been following him about with all the despairing torpor of the German post:





It had lain forgotten at Mannheim, and had grown yellow with dust, till the post-master thought fit to send it on to Heidelberg; thence it had travelled all over the Duchy, till it was sent back to Heidelberg, when an English friend, asking by chance were there any letters for Mr Leigh, took it in his charge and sent it to Wiesbaden, and the receipt strangely agitated the young man.

It was from Jessie, and dated from a small town in the north of England: she made but very slight allusion to the past, but expressed a wish to see Herbert once again; then the writer continued:

"Believe me, dearest Herbert, I ask this from no selfish motive; I know too well that we both acted foolishly, and I would not for worlds renew the sweet connexion that once existed between us. I have had opportunity for reflecting deeply on all that has occurred, and I can now say, without the slightest tinge of resentment, that you acted not only wisely





but for the best. A poor girl like me had no right to dream of such a noble husband as you, dear Herbert, and I have been deeply punished for my folly.

"You will not, dearest, misunderstand my motives my only wish for seeing you is, because I believe I shall not live long. The doctors tell me that my case is hopeless, and that it will be a miracle if I survive the winter. Oh! I have been ill, very ill! and the heartweariness I endure renders me anxious to face death. Ever since I left Wiesbaden and returned to England I have been pining away. I have no appetite, and my aunt, poor creature, not knowing my feelings, involuntarily tortures me in a thousand ways. My life, in a word, is a living death.

"Until I received the assurance of my fate from the physician who attends me I forebore writing to you, for I felt it would only be ripping open an old wound, which time was gradually cicatrizing. Now, however, that I know





death is hovering over me, I should like, dearest Herbert, to see you once again, and hear from your lips the assurance that you have forgiven all my petulance, and the ruin I brought upon you. Be assured, Herbert, that your name will be the last word on my lips, and that in dying I will invoke the blessing of Heaven upon you."

Herbert was terribly agitated at reading this letter, for his conscience told him that he was the cause of this poor young girl's life being nipped in the bud. In every line he traced that fervent affection he had enkindled in her, and his heart smote him for his past neglect. Hurriedly looking to the date, he found the letter was written in October, and they were now in January, and he shuddered at the thought that the sacrifice might by this time be consummated.

Still he made up his mind with startling rapidity: it was his duty to obey the summons at once, and in his excitement he made a





solemn vow that, if he found Jessie still alive, he would offer her the only reparation in his power by marrying her. Perhaps a husband's tender care might restore her health: at any rate he would try the experiment; and, after making hasty arrangements, he set off at full speed for England. Perish ambition or selfindulgence, if he could but save a human life, for which he felt morally responsible.

This event has certainly produced a crisis in my hero's life, and the probation he has undergone will probably lead him on the right path. I am quite convinced that he was most sincere in all his resolutions, and honestly meant to insure Jessie's life-happiness: it is just possible, however, that he may be imperilling his own. Still, he would have been less than a man if he had regarded such an appeal coldly -indeed, it would be impossible for any man of his age to remain callous under such circumstances.

And while Herbert is hastening to Eng





land at the moderate speed allowed on continental railways, and enduring that agony which awaits novices who go down to the sea in ships, we will pay a flying visit to some young ladies we have neglected too long. I feel convinced that my readers take sufficient interest in the Misses Folgate to wish to know what they had been about during this long interval.





CHAPTER XII.



VENUS VICTRIX.



THE family party of the Folgates was honoured with the constant presence of Mr Stubbs, who, to his dire wrath, had been condemned by his anxious mamma to remain under the beneficent tutelage of Mr Brien. He still dawdled round Blanche, rarely opening his lips to speak, and was gradually being regarded as a poodle, not particularly handsome or wise, but not kicked so long as he remained in his allotted corner.

Were it not for asserting a truism I would say that Time is far more efficacious than Mr Thingame's ointment in curing long-standing





wounds; and it had already effected much in soothing the sorrow occasioned by Sir Norton's death. His widow found consolation in the society of Mr Brien: Blanche speculated as to the advantage of securing a title hampered with the Stubbs' animal: Harriette loved herself alone, and before long, the only one of the party who remembered the old gentleman was little Alice. She, foolish child, still possessed that useless article, a heart; and she had really lost her best friend, the only one of the family who seemed to understand her, in her father. It is not surprising, then, that her sorrow lasted much longer than that of her sisters, and she had sunk into a state of lethargy from which Blanche could not arouse her.

I will not take on myself positively to say that thoughts of Herbert did not aid in producing this feeling; on the contrary, I believe that they added considerably to her grief, and instead of seeing that young gentleman in his true colours, Alice indulged in a belief that





caused her much additional grief. Knowing nothing of the real circumstances, for Herbert's name was never mentioned in the family, she had got it into her silly head that his affection for her had caused the match with Blanche to be broken off, and she, therefore, pitied him with all the fervour of her guileless heart.

Worst of all, she had nothing to arouse her from these dangerous thoughts: Jessie, her sole confidante, she had never heard of since she had left the family, and her sisters were far too engaged with their own schemes to waste time on her. Blanche, at times, unable to explain the conduct of Herbert, though she suspected her sister was the cause, felt a degree of remorse for Alley, and tried to console her, but like Calypso, she would not be comforted, and Blanche soon gave it up as a bad job.

As for her mother, who ought to have probed her heart's grief, and roused her from this unnatural state, she was also engrossed by her own private schemes; she had made up her





mind to marry Mr Brien as soon as her



year



of widowhood had expired, and, at the same time, she was anxious to get her daughters off her hands. Blanche, she had convinced herself, should marry Mr Stubbs; and Alley's care-worn face so annoyed her, like the skeleton at the Ægyptian banquets, that she meant to send her to school and try to drive the nonsense out of her head.



:



As far as Harriette was concerned, Lady Folgate felt it was quite useless to try and do anything with her she had a will of her own, and there was no fear of her breaking her heart through unrequited love. She could remain with the family as long as she liked, and whenever she thought proper to assume Brevetrank as an old maid, why, she could do so. Besides, who knew? She would not like her fortune to go out of the family, and might leave it to the two boys. Hence, they were bidden to be particularly attentive to sister Harriette, who,





seeing clearly through the scheme, was preparing to foil it.

It had been one of the conditions that Mr Brien should bring about the marriage between his promising pupil and Blanche, when the good-looking widow consented to be his : and he brought all his batteries to bear on that stolid youth. But, for a long time, Mr Stubbs remained dead to the voice of the charmer, and though Blanche greeted him with her sunniest smiles, as she was beginning to think it high time to bring her lover to book, it required the united influence of the tutor and the young gentleman's mamma, who had been gained over by the thought of the lady's fortune, before the stubborn youth could be forced to grant an assent.

At length, one fine day, when he found himself alone with Blanche in the drawing-room, tying knots in his pocket-handkerchief and then unfastening them again, and yawning, as





if to dislocate his lower jaw, the Brazen Head





Blanche naturally looked up, wondering what

this interpellation meant.







Hang me, if I know what I was going to say," the charming youth went on; "Oh yes! do you know if we are going to have any trout for dinner?"

"I really don't know, Mr Stubbs, but I'll send to inquire of the cook."

"Why, you see they 'll soon be out of season, and I must confess that, boiled properly and with egg sauce, they are stunning. I say, Blanche!"



"Well?"



"I wish, like a good girl, you 'd learn how they make that Charlotte Russe. There's a flavour about it I never noticed anywhere else, and you know when we 're married-"

"Mr Stubbs!" (indignantly.)

"Well! you know we are going to be mar





ried-they've settled it all (pointing over his shoulder into the adjoining room), and my mother says so too, so it must be right."

Really, Mr Stubbs, your mode of introducing the subject is so peculiar, to say the least of it, that you will permit me to retire." "What's the matter now? Oh! I suppose you think I ought to make regular love to you. But you know I hav n't the gift of tonguesI'm not a lady's man, like that Herbert Leigh, who-"

Mr Stubbs! Mr Stubbs! if you but knew how near you were to having your ears boxed by the indignant beauty, you would take up your hat and walk. But had Blanche done so you richly deserved it: why remind her of what she had lost at the moment she decided on taking you for better or worse? However, she stayed her hand and merely said:

"I am perfectly well aware that speaking is not your forte, but I think you might have made an effort on this occasion. If you have





you



anything to propose for my consideration, I am ready to listen to you, but pray do not bring up names which I care not to hear mentioned." "Well, Blanche, you need n't be snappish: I meant no harm, but I supposed they'd told all they had settled about us. My mother says I must marry you; old Brien says the same, and, really when I come to think about it, I sha n't make such a very bad bargain after all. Besides, it will be so handy to have some one to do the talking for me. Oh, dear me! how hot I am; you really should n't, Blanche, it's unkind of you."

"Shouldn't what?" Blanche asked, maliciously, a smile twinkling in the corner of her mouth, as she thought of now and then. Once she held him tight, wouldn't she put him through his paces!

"Why, make a fellow talk so much; you know I can't bear it, so say you'll be Mrs

Stubbs, like a good girl, and I think I'll go to sleep till dinner time."





There was a dangerous pause: it was on the tip of Blanche's tongue to refuse the animal point blank; with thirty thousand pounds she surely might look for something better; but she had found a grey hair that morning the thought of that decided her. Assuming quite as dégagé an air as her suitor, she heartily said







done," and Mr Stubbs was soon enjoying his siesta. He slept like an innocent now that weight was off his vacant mind.

The news of the coming marriage was received by the family with considerable equanimity: Harriette, perhaps, turned a shade yellower, but they were all so used to her illtemper, that they did not disturb themselves about her. But the announcement of the projected union between her mother and Mr Brien produced a very pretty sparring match between her and Lady Folgate, in which the two ladies spoke their mind to each other very freely; and Harriette at length wound up by saying that she would not live under the same





roof with them; to which her mother replied she was perfectly at liberty to go, as soon as ever she pleased. Then there would be some peace in the family.

Harriette was as true as her word, and managed to annoy her family at the same time in the acutest manner, which gratified her intensely. She simply eloped with one of the grooms, who had been in the habit of escorting her during her daily ride, while the others were billing and cooing, and who had no objection to 30,000 pounds, even with such a young woman attached to the bargain.

The letter she sent explaining her motives carried a sting with it, for she said her mother could not blame her for following her own example as she was about to marry a servant in the shape of the tutor, and as Blanche had all but done the same thing, no one could say she was wrong for doing the same. She enclosed a copy of her certificate, and, so soon as she arrived in England, her husband's solicitor





would communicate with the trustees as to the

payment of her fortune.

After the first feeling of annoyance had worn off, no one was particularly sorry to lose the amiable young vixen, who had such a knack of making everybody uncomfortable: Lady Folgate said she had always been a headstrong girl, and, as she had made her bed, so she must lie on it. With such common-places she dismissed the subject from her mind.

As for Blanche, she hardly paid attention to the matter, for she was full of preparations for her own wedding, which was to come off with remarkable brilliancy at the Embassy Chapel. Lord Polyanthus had promised to give away the blushing bride, and the Parisian Modistes had unlimited orders for finery.

As for Mr Stubbs, he hardly gave the subject of his marriage a thought, except that, on one point, he had shown unparalleled firmness. He would not live with his respected mamma, but would have a separate establish





ment of his own. This caused a decided hitch for some time, for the Dowager had been so long used to govern her son and manage his property, that she could not yield up her authority at a moment's notice, and Mr Brien was obliged to pay a visit to England before the knotty point could be settled. At length, however, everything was amicably arranged the lawyers got through their labours at a considerable expense to the respective estates, and Mrs Stubbs proceeded on the Hymeneal tour with her husband, with the intention of spending the winter in Paris.

The widow's marriage soon followed, although accompanied by no pomp, and all that remained was to arrange about Alley. In this there was, however, not the slightest difficulty: she wished to become a Pensionnaire in the Convent of the Bleeding Heart, and though her mother felt some fears lest she might listen to the blandishments of the nuns, and make over her fortune to the con





vent, there were yet two years to her coming of age, and she implored so earnestly to be allowed to be at rest, that Mrs Brien could not say her nay. So, after an affectionate farewell, and a paternal exhortation from her papa-in-law not to listen to the seductions of the Scarlet Lady, who was a very wolf in sheep's clothing, seeking whom she might devour, the newly-married couple proceeded to Paris en route to England with the boys, and the family party was utterly broken up.

As this is a chapter of marrying and giving in marriage, it would not be complete unless I added that almost at the same time when Blanche Folgate bestowed her hand on Mr Stubbs, another wedding was solemnized in a quiet English country church. Heibert Leigh, bachelor, was married to Jessie Meadows, spinster, and thus all my characters are settled and done for.

My readers, of course, anticipated this: when Herbert started off full of penitence to





bid an eternal farewell to the girl he had so deeply injured, the result was self-evident. He found her deplorably ill and yielding to a sentiment of pity, offered her the only reparation in his power. For a long time it was doubtful whether she would recover sufficiently to go through the marriage ceremony: but gradually her strength returned: the numbing pain that had preyed on her heart was removed when the object of fruition was within her grasp, and, this once routed, her naturally strong constitution did the rest.



:



It is just possible that Jessie was not so ill as she had fancied her ill-regulated mind had gone through the various phases of unrequited love and disappointed ambition, till she had fallen into a state of unhealthy excitement, from which the body suffered in an equal ratio. It was not till the revulsion came : when she held in her grasp what she had thought lost to her for ever, that the turmoil of her feelings threw her into a really danger





ous condition, which led Herbert to assume that she had been suffering for a lengthened period, and he really felt in a degree flattered that he had produced such a sensation.

Under these circumstances it is in no way surprising that he should offer Jessie his hand, as a sort of salve to his conscience, if she were to die, and when she recovered sufficiently to be married, he did not regret it for a moment. The consciousness that he was acting rightly buoyed him up, he saw the future through rose-coloured spectacles, and if at times the thought might invade him as to how he should support his wife, he soon dismissed it. Of course, he could gain a comfortable livelihood: if the worst came, he could turn author: he knew A and B and C, not half such clever fellows as himself, who were coining money with their pens, then why should not he?

This self-appreciation which makes every genius fancy himself an author by birth





is fortunately an evil which cures itself, else we authors by profession would soon be in a bad way. If every unsuccessful barrister or doctor, who flies into the literary arena, and confidently regards his pen as a bread winner, were to make a name, the market would soon be overstocked, to the great profit of publishers. Fortunately, I may say ninetenths of the gentry who take to literature, because they cannot do anything else, find the path too rough, and turn back after the first rude tumble.

In the course of the next century, people will begin to see that literature is a class profession just like physic, law, or divinity, in which the man who wishes to live by his pen must undergo a regular and careful training, and the odds are decidedly against him. The mildest curate is secure of an audience, and though his congregation may growl at his platitudes, he earns a livelihood, scant, it is true, but yet certain; but if an





author writes a bad book, his audience is soon reduced to a minimum, and his profits undergo



the same process.



Herbert, of course, had far too lordly an opinion of his own abilities to imagine a failure possible: he saw that every day ushered in new speculations, which required writers, and thought there was plenty of room for him. In fact, he hardly knew where he should apply first, as he felt sure the respective Editors would out-bid each other for his services, and in the meanwhile he proceeded to London with his new wife, and a magnificent viaticum of twenty-five pounds.

As I have already, in a previous work, described the struggles of a young author, and his fortunate climb up the ladder of success, I will not dwell on the career of Herbert Leigh, nor the bitter disappointment he endured in his attempts to earn a living by his pen. Suffice it to say, that all his expectations were blighted; and after weeks of anxious





waiting on Providence and Editors, he found that he had made an utter miscalculation.

What availed him his Latin and Greek, his knowledge of modern languages, when he found that he could not pen a smart sentence, or write up to the level of the age? Owing to his classical education, his articles read like essays of Queen Anne's reign, and though chastely correct in style, they were as insipid as milk and water, a most wholesome beverage, I grant, but not suited for the present superexcited age.

For my part, I am not at all prepared to join in the cry of editorial cliqueism, which disappointed authors are so apt to raise, for I believe that a clever and original writer will make his way in the long run against the most inveterate antagonism. In the present day of universal reading, the public are the sole arbiter of an author's merits, and if a man be not up to the standard, no amount of puffing will force his books upon them.





The merest glance at the change on our railway book-stalls during the past two years will serve to prove how exacting the public have become, owing to the enormous amount of literary wares offered them, and the necessity of discrimination, and I firmly believe the dawn of a most healthy state has set in, and the time has nearly arrived when the great mass of public opinion will produce that result which guilds of literature and art, in vain attempted to bring about in the proper recognition of the working bee of authorship.

But it strikes me I am drifting into shoppism; my only desire was to hold up a warning light to those of my younger readers who fancy literature a pleasant profession, which any one can take up without due mental preparation. I am firmly convinced that many a successful author, when he sees his old school-fellows managers of insurance offices, or holding snug berths in the city, would gladly exchange his renown for the certainty that the fortunes of





his family did not depend on his health, and accept solid pudding in lieu of the unsatisfactory and empty praise.

Such speculations as these my hero did not indulge in, for, to tell the simple truth, he never knew what it was to earn sixpence by literature. He got an odd job or two from publishers by translating, but they soon gave him up, because he was too long about his work, and though it might be a model of the English language, they could not wait. He also had the satisfaction of seeing himself in print on various occasions, but received nothing for his contributions, and when he gently hinted that he hoped to live by his pen, he was politely bowed out of the office. There was evidently some mistake, the affable officials said, as they wished him good morning, and left word they would not be at home in future to that gentleman.

Herbert was in a peculiarly awkward position; he did not like to let the few friends he





still possessed know that he was married, for though he would have scorned the notion that he was ashamed of his wife, the feeling to which he did homage was something very like it. Perhaps, though, he was actuated by the motive that he did not like to excite pity from the fact that he had a wife dependent on his exertions. Had he been possessed of wealth, he would not have hesitated a moment in introducing Jessie to the world as his wife, but he had a sort of uncomfortable feeling that, under the circumstances, people would say he had thrown himself away.

Still, it was quite certain that something must be done. From their two rooms at fifteen shillings a week they had gradually drifted into one at five shillings, and their wardrobe was rapidly proceeding into the care of the poor man's providence-the pawnbroker. All this while Jessie never repined: and though the thought that she was about to become a mother often filled her with anxious forebod





ings, she did not let her Herbert know her fears. Brave-hearted little woman, she performed menial offices for her husband which she would have spurned when living with the Folgates, but never by a word did she reproach him. His scanty meal she prepared with her own hands, and often went without herself, under the most artful pretexts, so as not to rob him of his necessary nourishment; she worked from morning till night, a willing handmaiden, and was amply repaid by a word of thanks.

At times, Herbert felt angry with her, because she was so good-tempered: he would have gladly vented his anger with the world upon her, but it was impossible. The poor dear girl was so happy when he was by her side, summoned up such bright visions of the future, tried to encourage him, and induce him to smile, that he could not turn upon her-it would have been as cruel as trampling on a



worm.





It would be painful to describe all the sacrifices Jessie made for her husband, and I will pass them over in silence. At length, when they were reduced to absolute starvation -when Jessie whispered to him, with a heavenly blush, her hopes and her fears, he formed a sudden resolution. That night's post conveyed a letter to an old don at College, who had always taken a lively interest in him, in which Herbert described his position, and begged his assistance in procuring employment. Almost by return Herbert received a note for £20, and a letter of introduction to the Vice Chairman of the South Junction Railway, with a hearty regret that the old gentleman could do no more for him.

Let radical reformers and bilious dissenters write what they please about university shortcomings and pampered officials, I say heartily, God bless them! and England will bitterly rue the day when the tide of reform sweeps those establishments from the land. I am





afraid we shall live to see it, but I for one shall deplore such a sacrifice, and I trust that every son of Alma Mater will offer a stubborn resistance to the encroachments of the enemy.





CHAPTER XIII.



A RAILWAY OFFICE.



REGARD being had to the very scanty remuneration given to railway directors, they might be credited with a vast amount of public spirit for performing such responsible duties, and devoting their time to a subject which very few of them understand. In fact, were it not for the honour of the thing, I fancy shareholders would be much better off without a board at all, and an intelligent General Manager might effect very considerable savings.

At present, the duties of directors appear to consist in inventing modes for throwing away





money, and waging internecine warfare with other railways. They have to endure a considerable amount of abuse, in consequence, at the general meeting, but, fortunately, that is only once a year, and they usually contrive to have such a body of supporters that they carry all their measures. Now and then being driven into a corner, they seek a vent for their spleen in the daily papers, the readers of which are at a loss which most to admire, the intemperance of their language, or the peculiarity of their grammar.

But all this and even more, if necessary, railway directors are willing to endure sooner than resign their position, for it gives them a most important lever in electioneering matters. They have a large amount of patronage in their hands, in the appointment of clerks and station-masters, and when it is not convenient to bother ministers for a nomination to a government office for some protégé, they thrust him into the audit office of the railway they direct.





Hence it is not surprising to notice the number of countrymen who are collected at the London establishments of our great railways; they represent so many votes broad-cast over the country, and put to good use at any election.

Just about the time of a dissolution, remarkable advancement takes place in the offices: men rush by a sudden bound from thirty shillings a week to £2 10s. Od., and snug station-masterships are eagerly looked up. It is just possible that the interests of the shareholders may suffer by this, as promotion by merit is almost the exception, but, of course, the directors have a right to these pickings, and I must do them the justice of saying they rarely neglect them.

Herbert Leigh presented his credentials to the Deputy Chairman, but, as he did not come from that part of the country where that gentleman's political influence lay, and could not be rendered useful in any way, all that was offered him was the position of ticket-clerk in





the London Terminus at 25s. a week, payable



from



fortnightly. The labour was atrocious seven in the morning till nine at night he was on duty with but slight relaxation, and his time was fully occupied.

The quiet traveller who takes his ticket for Brighton or Birmingham, and is served with so much promptitude, has little idea of the amount of work going on behind that painted screen. The ticket system is most complicated, and almost requires a Bidder to understand: it is only by long practice that a clerk learns by heart the different compartments to which he has to fly, and when the train is expedited, and he longs for a moment's rest, he has to check his money with the tickets issued, and put it by separately.

After this has gone on all day, varied by slight disputes about a bad half-a-crown or a suspicious shilling (which suffers no mercy in the tremendous detector employed), the clerk has still to make out his daily return of





tickets issued, which is checked the next morning by the tickets collected along the line, and

which are sent up by the station-masters to the head office.

This is a tolerably hard day's work in itself, but is far from being all: there is an infinity of weekly accounts to be made out for the Auditoffice, the statement of local and foreign traffic during the week (that is to say, a division of the tickets into those issued exclusively for their own line and those booked on to other lines), and also a duplicate of the latter for the Clearinghouse, which apportions the respective shares to the different railways traversed.

For my own part, I never could comprehend how the Clearing-house clerks get through their work, for they must all be embryo diplomatists to carry in their heads the various treaties between the railway powers and the constant modifications they undergo. Still, it is surprising what accuracy is displayed, and the Clearing-house is well worthy of a visit to admire the minute subdivision of labour, by which





alone the complicated task can be satisfactorily settled.

When I mention, for instance, that the fare paid from London to Aberdeen has to be equitably allotted between ten Railway Companies, and that no money passes in the transaction, the greatest credit is due to Mr Glynn for the beautiful system he has introduced, and the rapidity with which the accounts are cleared.

After about a month of this work, the London station-master found he had a bad bargain in Herbert: he might be a thorough gentleman, and was much liked by his fellowclerks, but he was of no use as regarded work. He made more confusion than he did good, and he was ignominiously removed to that refuge for the destitute, the Audit-office. Here his duties were much more pleasant, as he had less responsibility on his shoulders and his attention was soon engrossed by the mechanical labour of checking weekly returns.



:





The Audit-office, as its name imports, supervises all the accounts of the Company, which after being passed are balanced with the accountant's statement of the money received from all the stations during the week, and if any discrepancy is found to exist, the Audit is very soon down on the luckless station-master in the shape of the travelling auditor, who keeps him up to his work very sharply. At the larger stations, a small balance is necessarily allowed: but at the less important stations the money must be regularly balanced weekly, or the clerk runs a risk of appearing before the county magistrates and finding his way into jail.

In their monetary relations with their officials Railway Boards wisely make no compromise, and, as they have received security from some guarantee society, which is inexorably strict in case of any default, the defalcations are remarkably small. Here and there a case may occur where a clerk is detected in passing bad money in his change, but this is a rare occurrence, and I





may say that, as a body, they are the most honest employés in England, which does them great credit, when we take into consideration the smallness of the salaries.

The Audit-office undertakes the checking all the weekly returns relating to traffic for passengers, dogs, horses, carriages, dead bodies, parcels, merchandize, goods, and coals. Such a complication requires a considerable staff, for the work is never allowed to get behind hand, and is generally supposed to be completed with the publication of the weekly traffic.

In some audit-offices there is also a statistical staff, which regulates the parochial rating in the districts the line intersects, and, like all statistics, they can be made to prove anything, as Quarter Session Magistrates know to their cost on appeals coming before them. As a general rule, it may be laid down that the Railway suffers a loss in every parish it passes through, and though overseers may appeal to the notorious fact of a dividend being annually





paid, which presupposes some profit, the statistician triumphantly shows the contrary, at any rate so far as the parish he opposes is concerned.

Herbert soon learned to endure his new



:



duties they were regular, and he knew exactly how much he had to do every day, which was so admirably arranged that he had not a moment to spare. He found his companions mostly shrewd, unlettered men, whose grammarschool education was quite sufficient for their present duties, and who lived in an atmosphere of figures. Poor fellows! they were forced to steadiness by the smallness of their salaries, and any gentleman who thought to draw his money without working hard for it soon found out his mistake. A private interview with the General Manager usually led to his retirement, and he left the office in disgust to carry his brilliant talents to some more congenial sphere.

There is something rather painful in the





thought that the man who makes the best railway clerk is the one that approximates most closely to a machine: but so it must be. His thoughts should never be distracted from the object on which he is immediately engaged, for he may easily fall into an error, which throws the whole office out of gear, so beautifully are all the parts of the complicated mechanism assimilated. Herbert was ungrateful enough to dislike a mode of life which prevented thinking: he would have preferred something less methodical, or some refreshing interlude, but he forgot the admirable training he was undergoing, and which must prove of essential service to him hereafter. He had no prospect of living otherwise than by his own labours, and he could not possibly have gone to a better school than his present one.

However, if he wanted a change, he soon had it offered to him, for he was sent down in charge to a small road-side station, whose previous clerk had fallen into a small inheritance,





and very willingly resigned his post. Here Herbert's duties, though not heavy, required his utmost time and attention, for, in pursuance of a system of wise economy, he had only one porter to assist him in all his multifarious duties. He had one consolation, however, that Jessie lived in the station with him, and here gave birth to her first-born son, who was christened at the little village church.

To the contemplative man, desirous of spending his time in the pursuit of knowledge, I would not recommend application for a small station-mastership, and, as for seeing the country, he might as well be in the heart of Somer's Town. Every hour the clerk is obliged to be present to expedite the passing trains, and woe betide him if any neglect is laid to his charge, owing to his porter being unable to carry out everything he is expected to do. The latter is pointsman, shunter, ticket-collector, goods manager, policeman, and, as if that were not enough, he has to telegraph





to the next station the exact moment the train has left his own. For all this he receives some seventeen shillings a week, and what by courtesy is called a cottage. It is impossible for him to perform all these duties satisfactorily as he has not half-a-dozen pairs of hands, he is compelled to omit something or other, but the Board never think of throwing the blame on him, for they know he must break down, and they hold the clerk in charge responsible.



:



It may be very naturally supposed that under such a management accidents must occur, and, indeed, in nine cases out of ten, railway accidents are the result of this unwise parsimony, this stopping at the tap, and letting run at the bung. While Managing Directors receive their two thousand a year, the safety of the passengers is left to men with their five-and-twenty shillings a week; and the only surprise is, that accidents are so rare.

At any rate, Herbert's station was not





spared the visitation: and the accident that occurred there threw such a light on the system that it produced some better arrangements for a time-though when public attention was quieted, and the great Biddlecombe railway accident had passed from memory, the old bad system was reverted to.

My readers, of course, remember the cir cumstances and the deplorable accident which the Board called a trifling collision, but which the inexorable reporter of the Times described truthfully as a gross piece of neglect, costing half-a-dozen lives. Yet there was nothing at all out of the way in the accident; a goods train broke down just before entering Biddlecombe station: the porter, in his confusion, forgot to turn on the danger signal, and the Express Train dashed into

there was time to pull up.



the other before

There was an in



quest, of course: illustrated papers sent their own correspondents to depict the scene: the

porter was committed for trial, and, of course,





acquitted, while Mr Leigh was declared guilty



of



gross neglect, which the Board endorsed by dismissing him from their service. As, how

ever, the young gentleman was thoroughly convinced of the injustice of the sentence, and that the Directors ought to be put on their trial for offering a premium for danger by their ill-judged parsimony, he threatened them with publicity, and they compromised matters by giving him a hundred pounds, which, I trust, they subscribed among themselves, though I am inclined to doubt it.

Herbert accepted the compromise, feeling that, however much justice might be on his side, his opponents were too powerful for him to gain anything from publicity. He, therefore, pocketed the money which purchased his silence, and proceeded to look for further employment on a railway. His testimonials for industry and energy were first-rate, but somehow or other he could not procure any employment. Thinking that his credentials ought





It



to be enough to satisfy all requirements, he did not attempt to procure any interest. is not surprising, then, that he found himself disappointed wherever he applied: there were no vacancies, the authorities were sorry to say, and, indeed, they would have been chary in offering employment to a young man who had left one railway under awkward circumstances. There is a freemasonry among these huge societies, and there is no doubt Herbert was tabooed. At any rate, he soon gave up all hopes of procuring employment on



way.



a rail



Equally futile were his hopes of obtaining a situation in a merchant's office, and though he answered scores of advertisements, he was continually too late, or else his application was neglected. At length he wisely made up his mind to emigrate to Australia, before his small funds were diminished. Jessie quite coincided in his views: they had not been so happy in their fatherland as to indulge in any





sentimental feelings on the subject, and she hoped that fortune would smile on them in their new home. Matters being thus satisfactorily arranged, and Herbert having sold every available article which could raise money, he took places in the steerage of that wellknown and fast-sailing clipper the "Ramchunder," which was under heavy penalties to reach Sidney in ninety days.



hero's attempts



Such was the end, then, of my to gain an honest livelihood in his native country, and has been the fate of scores before him. Brought up to no profession, his only chance being to accept a wretched curacy and gentlemanly starvation, I do not think he could have hit on a better course than proceeding to a young country. He was strong and active: if his literary abilities did not serve their turn, he could take up the axe, and work like a day labourer; besides, he knew no one out there, and would have no hesitation about undertak





ing tasks he would have thought menial in the



old country.



Altogether, then, Herbert's decision was the wisest he could form, and he made his preparations as speedily as possible. At length the. little family had taken possession of their stifling berths amidst a swarm of emigrants, and it certainly required a vast amount of energy to makeup one's mind to endure such company for four months.

As grief is proverbially dry, many of the emigrants had drowned their sorrow at leaving England in the flowing bowl, and the most disgraceful scenes took place in the two days prior to the ship sailing. At length she was hauled out into the river, and rode at a single anchor, though the second mate confidentially told Herbert they should not be off for twentyfour hours yet. Herbert was not at all sorry for the delay, as he wished to lay in a few sea stores, which, in the hurry, he had neglected





to purchase, and after kissing Jessie and the boy, he went ashore in a boat, and began busily purchasing the articles he wanted.

He was returning to the docks and preparing to go on board again, when his eye fell on a newsvendor's shop, and he thought he would buy a Times of that date to be religiously preserved as a landmark, which he could hand down to his boy as the record of the day he quitted England. The idea was puerile enough if you will, but Herbert instinctively yielded to it, and bought a copy of the paper. As he folded it up, his eye fell accidently on the leading page-what meant that start and sudden flush? This was the cause :

"If Mr Herbert Leigh, late of Bishop's College, Cambridge, and son of the late Dean of St Mildred's, will apply to Messrs Fleeceham and Dockett, of Lincoln's Inn, Solicitors to Philip Gaston, Esq., deceased, he will hear of something greatly to his advantage. Or, any person producing satisfactory proof of Mr





Leigh's decease, will be handsomely reward



ed."



Herbert was stunned by the announcement: he felt that his eccentric relative had left him a fortune. We all know that instinct which foretells events with extraordinary accuracy, and Herbert was certain of the fact. What a blessed thought that he should purchase the paper! the merest accident prevented him sailing to Australia, where, in all probability, he would not have heard of his accession of fortune.

He was in such a state of excitement that he did not attempt to think about the best course to pursue hurriedly writing a note to Jessie to come ashore at once, he sent it off by a waterman with the parcel he had purchased, and bade him bring the lady back. She was to return to her old lodgings, where he would join her in the course of the evening.

The waterman, however, thought it as well to pocket the five shillings Herbert gave him and confiscate the parcel the consequence





was, that Jessie did not receive the note, and waited anxiously for hours in the stifling cabin for the return of her husband. Being perfectly ignorant of maritime matters, she paid no attention to the noises going on around her, and it was not till the strange sensation produced by the movement of the vessel through the water began, that she realized the fact that she was going off to Australia without her husband.

In vain did she ask advice from those around her; the mate told her her husband would be sure to go down to Deal and come on board there, when he found he had missed the vessel, and she was forced to accept this consolation. Unfortunately for her, the Ramchunder had hardly left the river's mouth than a violent storm set in, and Jessie was soon unconscious of all that was passing around her, while undergoing the misery of sea-sickness. When she recovered sufficiently to direct her thoughts to her position, the Ramchunder was wobbling about





in the Bay of Biscay, and there was no chance of her husband joining her there.

Jessie was in a most painful position; she had not a shilling in her possession, for Herbert had taken charge of their purse, and she knew not how she would be able to live until Herbert joined her. When her case became known, however, much sympathy was evinced for her by all the passengers, and a purse scribed, while her thoughts were fully occupied by the dangerous illness of her boy. For weeks he lay between life and death, and by the time he began to regain his strength, the voyage was nearly over.



sub



This trial produced a good effect on the young wife, for she had no time to brood over the absence of her husband; and when she was able to think about it, she began to console herself with the thought that he would follow her by the next ship. More fortunate still, her devotion to her boy saved her from witnessing the disgraceful scenes that in those days took





place on board our emigrant ships, and which would have contaminated an angel.

And here we must leave her for the present, the floating Hades steadily pursuing its course to the Antipodes. Whether it arrive there safely time will show; in the meanwhile we will come back to our hero, who, when we left him, was hastening at full speed to the office of the lawyer.

He was not at all deceived in his calculations; his only relative, Mr Gaston, had left him a fortune of seven thousand a year, "because he was the only one of his family who had never asked him for a shilling." The sole condition attaching to the bequest was that Herbert Leigh should assume the name and arms of the Gaston family, which would otherwise have died out.

The consultation lasted late in the day, and was deferred till the following morning, when Mr Leigh would have to prove his identity, and he hurried off to impart the joyful intel





ligence to Jessie, whom he expected to find at the lodgings in the neighbourhood of the docks, which he had occupied during the last fortnight to be nearer the ship.

We are aware that he would not find her there, and he was terribly startled at the intelligence. Rushing down to the river side he discovered that the ship had sailed, and there was no chance of his joining it. For hours he wandered about the docks, seeking his wife in vain; he could not realize the fact that she had sailed without him, for he never suspected the waterman had played him false; she must have landed.

At length, wearied with the search, he forced himself into the belief that Jessie had really sailed, and though he could not explain her motives, he determined on following her as soon as his legal affairs were settled. In all his conferences with the eminent firm, he, however, studiously avoided making any reference to his position, and, as they supplied him





with plenty of money, and he was enabled to renew his old luxurious habits, he did not feel such peculiar eagerness to cross the ocean.

The legal arrangements occupied a great deal of time; there was any quantity of deeds to sign, and, what with one thing and another, Herbert found himself thinking very little of his wife and child. Had anybody hinted to him that the idea had already germed in his mind of employing this opportunity to rend a tie which he began bitterly to regret,





he would have shrunk from the idea, but it was quite true. The demon of ambition had whispered in his ear, and he had listened to he tempter.



:



But I would not have it supposed that the crude notion was suddenly developed on the contrary, he was still quite determined on proceeding to Australia by the next vessel. But the legal formalities occupied so much time. What a nuisance it was, to be sure, and what trouble poor Jessie must be in, he





thought and sighed, as he gently swallowed his iced Champagne, or applauded the Ballerina of the day, while seated in his comfortable opera box.

Nemo repentè fuit turpissimus is a very old and very true axiom: but Herbert had already begun the turpitude, and there was every prospect of its attaining its altitude by slow and gradual steps.





CHAPTER XIV.



THE MAN OF FORTUNE.



TALK of electric telegraphy indeed: its speed is as nothing compared with the rapidity with which the news of a man having inherited a large fortune spreads through our great and wonderful metropolis. Hardly had my hero taken up his quarters in the town-house, in Grosvenor Street (which he considerately re-furnished in readiness for Jessie), than he was positively quite startled to find what a number of friends he unconsciously possessed. He who but a few short months previously had not known where to turn for a dinner, was now inundated with invitations: his name was





constantly in the papers, and his movements were chronicled as if he were some Emperor. For him all the purveyors of fashionable vanities produced their most precious stores and Wardour Street was at his disposal, if he liked to furnish an historical portrait-gallery.

With equal rapidity the Electors, free and independant to a man, of the borough of Dullminster, the adjoining country town to his estate, discovered that they had all been in the wrong for returning Mr Pounceby on liberal, principles, when they found that the new owner of "The Larches" was a staunch Conservative. Committees were formed in preparation for the ensuing election, and it was predicted that Mr, Gaston would be returned to Parliament to represent the country gentleman's interest with a triumphant majority.

There is not the least doubt that Herbert was intoxicated with his success, for it was such a glorious recompense for the past. With lovely Lady Adelaides and Floras welcoming





him with their sunniest smiles, he felt in a perfect Elysium, till he suddenly remembered who was anxiously awaiting him beyond the ocean. Yet he was not thoroughly heartless: the present was so delightful that he could not help revelling in it, and he gave way to his old habits of procrastination.

As a salve to his conscience he transmitted a thousand pounds to Sidney, with directions that it should be paid to Mrs Leigh's order, on the part of her husband, and he even went so far as to book his place by the overland route. But, as he missed his passage three times, he found this rather expensive, and he consequently put off his departure till, his senses being dulled by the whirl of excitement in which he lived, he shook off all unpleasant remembrances of his wife, just as a man does of a bill that has a couple of months to run; when the time comes for its presentation, it will be time enough to think about meeting it.

But, while temporising thus, Herbert was





particularly cautious not to write and tell Jessie of the good fortune that had befallen him. He meant to keep that as a pleasant surprise, which he would not allow any one but himself to produce, and in the meanwhile, he went on the old course, enjoying himself uncommonly and launching out into all the follies which young men of fashion and fortune think their natural right.

Still, I do not think he would have acted a villain's part to Jessie, had not he been subjected to an influence which robbed him of all the good principles still left in him. If I have at all made my readers understand Herbert's character, they will have seen that he never acted like a scoundrel from intention: and his vices were always the result of external influNot that this should be urged as any excuse for him but I would explain that he always yielded to the present, and had not the ominous accident occurred to separate him from his wife and child, he would, probably,



ences.





have gone down to the grave an honest paterfamilias, beloved and respected by all who knew him. Virtue and vice were pretty equally balanced in the composition of his character: but he essentially wanted some stronger mind to guide him in either direction.

His worst fault was, however, an exaggerated susceptibility and fear of ridicule: and he would sooner have cut off his right hand than have allowed his fashionable friends to know that he had married a lady's maid. Such an offence to the bienséances would have been unpardonable: if he had seduced her and cast her off, he might have obtained forgiveness, "for young men will be young men, my dear;" but by putting the crowning seal on his folly and marrying the girl, he would have proved himself a fool-and that is far more fatal to a man's worldly success than a decent dash of roguery.

At any rate, Herbert was an apt scholar of this world's wisdom, and had already appre





ciated the worth of the saying that language is given us to conceal our thoughts. Society accepted him as an unmarried man, and he took no pains to undeceive it, and there was so much pleasure in knowing himself or his fortune courted by all the lovely girls in search of an establishment, that he was not at all disposed to break through the Circean net and claim his liberty.

But, as I said before, Herbert yielded to an influence which would have destroyed any good resolves he might form: he renewed his acquaintance with Blanche, now the Hon'ble Mrs Stubbs, whom four years had ripened into a thorough woman of the world, whose follies every one knew, or suspected, except her husband. She had gained such a mastery over her Mauleverer, that he could refuse her nothing and they had spent two years in Paris, which the young lady had not allowed to pass by unimproved. When sufficiently primed with evil in that Circean capital, she dragged





her facile husband to town, and set up an establishment which soon made her talked about. As she spent money lavishly, and spared no expense to gratify her pride and vanity, she soon drew a certain set around her, among whom she moved the queen, by right divine of beauty. In truth, she was a lovely creature, and so thought Herbert, as he gazed with impassioned glances upon her, as she sat in the front of her opera box, rejoicing in the multitude of glances fixed upon her face, and flushed with the consciousness that she was the acknowledged beauty of the season.

In fact, this splendid creature held a position which many envied her: she possessed a private fortune in the interest of her own thirty thousand pounds, and the thousand a year her husband settled upon her on her marriage; and though she had been a good deal talked about in Paris, she had not committed herself to any dangerous extent. Still, she had brushed away the down of innocence, and men had no





hesitation in talking before her in a manner they would not have dared in the presence of one whose virtue held them in awe.

Altogether, her little suppers were delightful, and as her husband never made his appearance at them the company felt no restraint, and indulged in various demi-mots which would have made a fortune in Paris, and of course were perfectly harmless because not expressed in vulgar English.

This syren Herbert saw again in the lobby of the opera as she was proceeding to her carriage on the arm of a greatly bewhiskered guardsman. With a heavenly smile she effaced the past and its awkward reminiscences, and held out her hand in the most affectionate



manner.



"My dear Herbert," she said, "I am so delighted to see you again: I have often wondered what became of you. I have a thousand things to talk to you about—stay, give me your card, Stubbs shall call on you





to-morrow and find out what day you are disengaged for dinner. But, mind you, as soon as that ceremony is performed, I shall expect you at my feet instanter."

And she glided gracefully past, leaving Herbert awe-struck by her glorious presence. Good God! and that magnificent creature might once have been his-and he, like a fool, had neglected the opportunity, and thrown himself away on a servant girl. He must surely have been mad to allow himself to be seduced by a pair of rosy cheeks, which, when he last saw them, had not even that merit to commend them—and the thought that he had lost this peerless creature for a poor puny sickly girl, whom he now felt heartily ashamed of, made him almost furious.

And from that moment the thought began ripening in him that he would get rid of Jessie, no matter what it might cost him.

Ungrateful man! would Blanche have made one of the sacrifices for you that your wife





offered you so unrepiningly? You have forgotten all that dreary time of misery, when you depended on her for your smallest comforts, when she disposed of every little treasure she possessed, lest you might want for anything-how she starved herself, not to deprive you of your scanty meal. But men always forget the benefits foolish women bestow on them so ungrudgingly-perhaps, Jessie, had you been 'more selfish, you might have fared better. You loved and were betrayed—not the first nor the last of your sex who will suffer the same fate, so long as you listen so confidingly to men's promises or put faith in their honeyed words.

And, yet, Jessie, you have one consolation : you can sleep with a calm conscience, knowing that you have not wittingly injured a fellow

creature while your false husband tosses and



:



moans on his luxurious bed, and finds no comfort for in the silence of the night thoughts of the past flood back upon him, and he is





conscience-pricked at the remembrance of his intended villany to a girl, whose only fault was in loving him too well.

Mr Stubbs' promised visit soon took place, and Herbert found no change in him, except that he had grown considerably fatter and was more sparing of words than ever, save when he got on his favourite subject of eating. He was an arbiter on the vexed question that has since risen as to the respective merits of French and Russian dinners, and, had he lived, I doubt not would have gained a niche of immortality in the columns of the Times, like the renowned G. H. M., the rejected of Rochester, who certainly should have stood for Etanswille.

The past seemed to Herbert obliterated, when he again found himself seated by Blanche's side, her long curls kissing his cheeks as in the olden time, and he falling once more into the dangerous habit of whispering in her ear. Glorious was the flush that suffused her cheeks, when he ventured slightly





to remind her of those past happy hours, and she gazed on him with liquid eyes, that seemed to the dazzled Herbert still full of love for his unworthy self.

The pair were in a strange and dangerous position: Blanche seemed to have utterly forgotten the insult he offered her, and listened with evident delight to his impassioned words. Was she playing a part?

If it were so, not a look revealed it, and before the first two hours had passed, Herbert was madly, irretrievably in love-up to the present, he now saw, only his senses had been called into play-now his heart was engaged, and he felt as if he could commit murder to possess the lovely woman who sat so confidingly by his side.

Blanche was conscious of her power over her recreant lover, and she almost shuddered at the thought of the animal she was tied to, as she gazed on the handsome young man who had so nearly been her husband. On revient tou





jours à ses premiers amours, she began to find was a true adage, but, as she had no intention of surrendering on such easy terms, she cleverly turned the conversation :



.



By the way, Herbert, tell me have you heard anything about that little Jessie ?





(She noticed his start and confusion, but went on quite calmly.)

"Do you know I rather fancied once you were seriously épris with that girl, and I must own that her departure following so suddenly on yours caused me strange suspicions. Ah, Herbert, had we then been only as wise as we now are!"

Herbert was in a torture: for he did not know how much Blanche had learned of his past love-passages with the handmaiden. That she knew nothing of his marriage he was firmly convinced. However, he managed to reply with sufficient calmness:

"No, I have never heard a word about her





how fond poor little Alley used to be of her --I wonder how she endured the parting?





It was Blanche's turn to blush now, but she concealed it very cleverly, and replied:

"Ah! poor dear Alley! Sir Norton's death was a sad blow to her, she never recovered from it; she is now en pension at Florence, and I believe has made up her mind to profess as soon as she is of age, which will be within six months."

Blanche, however, was very careful, you see, not to allude to the other cause for Alley's depression. What a pretty game of deception the two were playing! Blanche thinking that Herbert was fully aware of her sister's feelings toward him, while he fancied that she knew all about his goings-on with Jessie.

"But you have n't asked about Harriette, Mrs Wiggins, I mean?" Blanche continued.

Herbert made an almost imperceptible grimace, as if he had squeezed a little too much lemon-juice on an oyster he was swallowing.









No, really, she is to be pitied, although she behaved so unkindly to us all. She is separated from her husband-they say he used to beat her shamefully-and when he found out from his lawyer that, owing to her running away with him, all her property came to him, he treated her so badly that she could not stay with him. So he allows her a hundred a-year, and she is living at a boarding-house in Boulogne."



He



Such was the recommencement of the acquaintance between Blanche and Herbert, proving that the quarrels of lovers are the renewal of love. From this moment he began going down the slope fast, and before long his every thought was devoted to Blanche. was constantly by her side: he was her cavalier servente, and she kept his passion inflamed by the most astounding alternations of temper. At one moment she seemed to be the fond and yielding woman, but, if Herbert dared to take advantage of her feelings, she changed as sud





denly as an April day. By a single glance she iced him into propriety, and he would leave her more madly in love than ever and cursing the tie by which they were both fettered.

It was while in this dangerous state of mind, and revolving every possible scheme for keeping his marriage secret, that Herbert was relieved from his burden in a very unexpected and satisfactory manner. Intelligence reached England that the Ramchunder, long overdue at Sydney, had been shipwrecked in the Torres' Straits and all hands were lost. At the time she was found but little of her still held together, and only her sternpost revealed to what goodly ship it had once belonged. As to the fate of the passengers and crew, there could unfortunately be no doubt, for any who by accident escaped shipwreck must have been devoured by the savages.

Herbert breathed a sigh of relief when he read this intelligence, and yet only a short year had elapsed since he loved Jessie with all





the fervour of a grateful husband. The altered circumstances in which he lived certainly had much to do in producing this change, but his insane passion for Blanche more, and he considered the catastrophe as really a merciful interposition on his behalf.

The fear of discovery being thus removed Herbert cast prudence to the winds, and made up his mind to compromise Blanche to such an extent in the eyes of the world, that she must have no resource but in flying with him; unfortunately for his project, Blanche soon read his plans, and took her measures to prevent them. These were simple enough: her nods and becks and wreathed smiles were bestowed on the tall guardsman, Fitzflather, who was restored to his old position, vice Gaston, permitted to retire. This almost maddened Herbert: he now knew what the torture of unsatisfied love was, and began to appreciate the agony Jessie must have endured during the time she had been sundered from him prior to their marriage.





Still he was not inclined to yield up his prey so

easily he believed that Blanche really loved



:



him, and therefore tried to rouse her jealousy.

Before long, the Signora Petti's charming house at Brompton began to be talked about, and the exquisite manner in which Mr Gaston had fitted it up for her, and many were the comments worthy Dowagers indulged in about the depravity of the young men of the present day. What a pity it was they did not get married at an early age, as their forefathers were wont to do! But this produced not the slightest effect on Blanche: she treated Herbert just the same as before, and went on in her wild routine of dissipation. She knew she had limed her bird and that a wink would bring him back to her feet, but she was not yet prepared to give the sign, and allowed him to flutter at his will, and make himself only the more miserable by the thought of what he craved, and the poor substitute he was compelled to put up with.





One thing, however, Blanche did: which threatened to produce a crisis-whatever might be her feelings towards Herbert they were kept in her own bosom. Perhaps, then, it was for the purpose of dispelling her own doubts-no matter at whose cost, that she added in a postscript of one of her letters to Alley:

"By the way, an old friend of yours and mine is a pretty constant visitor at my house. I say old friend, for I suppose you have not quite forgotten Mr Leigh: he is no longer a tutor, though, but has come into a large fortune, and has changed his name to Gaston: there is some talk about his marrying Lady Adela Rougelion, daughter of the Duke of Chiswick but I ought not to inflict my gossip on you-for, of course, you have turned your thoughts from all worldly matters. Good-bye, darling, and mind and let me know before you profess."



:



Not being in the secret of the young lady





to whom this letter was addressed, I can only judge from consequences. So much is certain that soon after, when Herbert came to drink one of his daily draughts of love, and grow more and more intoxicated, Blanche carelessly said to him:

"Oh! by the way, Mr Gaston, I have received the strangest letter from little Alice. You know we supposed it was all settled that she would profess, but all at once she has changed her mind. She writes me that she has not yet seen enough of the world to decide whether she should give it up irrevocably, and it would be acting a coward's part to run away from danger whose extent she is unacquainted with. Hence, with the permission of Holy Mother, she purposes coming to England for a year, and asks me to give her a room for that time, if I can spare one, and act as her chaperon. Of course I will-the poor darling was only throwing herself away, I always thought, and Stubbs is going over to fetch






her next week. I am delighted at being able to make him useful for once."

While speaking, Blanche narrowly watched the effect of her words on her auditor, and she breathed an audible sigh of satisfaction when she found he listened to the news so calmly. He merely said:

"I shall be very glad to see my dear little pupil again, though I suppose she will have grown out of memory by this time. She was a good, affectionate creature, and it would be a sincere pity were she to be immured in a convent at her early age."

For the rest of the week Blanche was remarkably gracious to Herbert, and consequently raised him into the seventh heaven of delight, so much so that he at once broke off his liaison with Mlle Petti. Perhaps, though, the fact that he saw a suspicious-looking cabriolet drive away from her door just as he was going to visit the fair danseuse may have had some effect in precipitating the breach. The Mamselle, how





ever, agreed to the separation with perfect equanimity, and before the week was up the town talk was about the perfect villa Lord Polyanthus had just furnished for her in St John's Wood. A few more elevations, and she will have become perfectly respectable.



:



Of course Blanche soon heard of the event and laughed inwardly to herself at the sway she exercised over Herbert. She, hardly, knew herself what course she would pursue with this ardent lover she felt at times irresistibly attached towards him, but then the remembrance of the past and the insult he had offered her gushed upon her mind, and she hated him with a fierce hate. He had compelled her to degrade her womanhood by marrying Stubbs, and she could not forgive that. In truth, she never realized how much she had been attached to Herbert till she found that fatal tie stand in the way of her happiness.

Two things she resolved on, while awaiting thefuture: she must give Herbert just sufficient





encouragement to prevent his marrying, and, in the next place, she must be particularly cautious in not allowing her love to become too visible. At times she found it a fearful task to keep her unregulated passions under control, and she shunned any of those exquisite téte-à-têtes which had served to rekindle his desire. But she had begun to be alarmed for herself she would not, for the world, break with society, which now only tolerated her for her money, and she knew too well the position a divorced wife holds to sacrifice her reputation to her love.

However, there could be no harm in trying the experiment with Alley, and seeing whether her presence might not arouse the halfextinguished flame with which she felt assured that Herbert had once been enkindled for her sister. No matter what distress of mind it might cost her, when the experiment had proved successful the girl could return to her convent, the only place she was fit for.





For my part, I think it a very dangerous weapon to try, and had Blanche been wise she would have shunned the attempt. If it end in her own discomfiture she will have only herself to blame. What say you, O reader?



END OF VOL. I.