PASSAGES



IN THE



LIFE OF A FAST YOUNG LADY.



CHAPTER I.



A YELLOW FOG in London! We all know from experience what that is, have felt the overwhelming influence of the cold, clammy pressure, the weight and depression it ever exercises over the spirits, the gloom it casts on every surrounding object, magnifying, to an unsupportable degree, the troubles which may chance at the moment to lie most heavily on the heart.

It was on a morning when our metropolis





wore its most sombre garb-that dark covering which may well cause our foreign neighbours to look upon us with such unfeigned commiseration, no longer wondering at our dull and apathetic natures-the gas lamps scarcely seeming to lend any assistance in irradiating the thick orange-coloured darkness of the atmosphere, that a cab was suddenly stopped as it turned into an obscure street, and without waiting for the assistance of the driver, an arm was thrust out of the window, the door of the vehicle burst open, and a man springing out, closely enveloped in a great coat, his face buried in the thick folds of the shawl about his neck, helped or rather dragged forth, his companion, also covered with a large cloak, and whose countenance was concealed by an impenetrable veil, and then ordered the cabman to wait there until the ladies returned. This done, he walked





on without offering any further notice, the lady following, as also an elderly woman, who had been one of the occupants of the



cab.



Along dirty streets, they traversed with difficulty, keeping up with the rapid, impatient steps of their conductor, until they reached the gate of an old tumble-down church, in an obscure precinct, into which the man at once stalked. The clergyman and clerk were waiting in readiness to receive the party, and the gentleman, for such, notwithstanding his disguise, he unmistakably appeared, walked hurriedly to the Communion-table, seemingly little heeding whether his bride elect was doing the same; but at length, impatiently turning round, and perceiving that she stood motionless in the doorway, he strode hastily towards her, and said, in anything but a conciliatory tone of voice,





"For heaven's, sake come on! let it be done, and that quickly."

The lady thus urged obeyed, although those who looked on might have perceived that she trembled so violently that her limbs had scarcely power to sustain her faltering steps.

The person who accompanied her, and she was evidently intended to play the part of witness, now took her place by the side of the bride, the clerk having been deputed to give her away.

What a bridal it was! In that wretched, worm-eaten church, the deep orange-tinted fog rendering the whole scene so obscure that the clergyman must indeed have known the service well by rote, or he could not have distinguished a word in the Prayerbook he held in his hand-scarcely the countenances of those standing before him.

The ceremony, performed in a most





slovenly manner, and contracted to its shortest limits, was soon ended, and the couple pronounced man and wife.

"There is something more to be done, I suppose," exclaimed the bridegroom, in an impatient tone of voice, taking no notice of his newly-made wife, whose emotion was beginning to be so apparent, that the woman who accompanied her stepped forward to offer her assistance.

The gentleman was informed that he must sign his name in the register, and into the vestry he stalked, leaving the lady to follow.

Seeing that she hesitated, the clergyman accosted her, and she was about to be ushered into the dark, small closet bearing the name of vestry, when she encountered the bridegroom hurriedly issuing from it, he having done his part even in that short



moment.



The lady murmured a name quite in





audible from agitation, as she eagerly caught hold of his arm to arrest his flight.

"You must not leave me thus," she imploringly said. "Are we indeed thus to part, and for ever?”

"Did you not consent that it should be so, Linda ?" he harshly replied; "you knew how it was to be, and having fulfilled your promise, we do now part, and as far as I can see, will never meet again.'





And with cruel force he extricated her hands from the light grasp with which she had endeavoured to detain him, and after having thrust money to defray the necessary fees into the hands of the clergyman who had officiated at these ill-omened nuptials, he hurriedly left the church, apparently little heeding the shriek of agony which burst from the lips of her to whom he had just pledged himself that death should only part them.





The poor girl, for such she appeared, when the veil was removed in order that water might be sprinkled on her death-like face, was kindly ministered to by the person who had accompanied her.

She was made to swallow a little wine which was kept in the vestry for sacramental purposes, and by degrees revived sufficiently to sign her name and be assisted into the cab which was still awaiting them.

Not a word passed from the white lips of the bride during the long, miserable drive; she sat motionless, her hands clasped, her eyes dilated, fixed on vacancy, the very image of dark despair. Such a bride! this wretched looking young creature, with masses of dark brown hair hanging in confusion about her face, her dress neglected, no sign or trace of aught but misery; and the dense, cold, humid atmosphere penetrating through





the badly closed windows, pressing with its freezing influence upon the already overcharged feelings.

At length the cab stopped at a small house in one of the insignificant streets leading out of Bloomsbury Square.

"For goodness' sake! make haste and get a pan of coals to warm the young lady's bed, Sarah," was the order given as they entered the door.

"And now, my dear, we must put you to bed, you are chilled to death," was the proposition made by the good woman to whose house they had just returned.

The girl shook her head, and then attempted to rise from the chair on which she had thrown herself on first entering the little parlour, but the trembling limbs refused to perform their office, and she sank back, for the first time that morning tears coming to her relief; but tempo





rary relief only they proved, for soon convulsive sobs burst forth anew, which at first she tried hard to restrain, but her emotion rose far beyond her control, and a violent fit of hysterics ensued, which only ceased when complete prostration of strength caused the poor sufferer to fall into a state of stupor.

In this condition she was undressed and removed to the next room, placed in a small bed which she had before occupied, and soon sank into a profound and deathlike sleep.

Then, as Mrs. Davis sat down for the first time that day to refresh herself with a cup of tea, after such a morning as she had never before passed, she pondered gravely and sadly over the perplexing scene she had just witnessed. Mrs. Davis was a retired servant, and had amassed sufficient means to take a small house, the upper part





of which she let, retaining the parlours for herself.

We must take the liberty of repeating aloud her cogitations, as she consoled herself with that innocent solace of the perplexed, that beverage so out of favour with our modern Esculapians, but which nevertheless has continued for many generations to be the comfort of our lives.

Yes, a cup of tea, why should not sonnets be written in its defence and praise, as well as to so many far less worthy objects?

And whilst the good woman sat sipping and cogitating, her eyes happened to fall upon a letter on the chimney-piece.

"A letter, I declare, for Miss Linda!" she exclaimed, as she reached it down and began to examine it with her eyes and manipulate it with her fingers, "and I verily believe there are bank-notes within.





So much the better. Well, I'll just go and look at the poor thing," Mrs. Davis added, her spirits beginning to rise at the discovery, "but not give her the letter just yet;" and so saying, she opened a door of the folding ones dividing the little parlours, and noiselessly walked to the side of a small press-bed on which the unfortunate girl was lying.

She was in a profound sleep, her hair thrown back, disclosing a small oval face and well-shaped forehead. The features appeared regular enough, but the mouth was compressed and rather distorted, as if with pain; the complexion of a hue so livid that what its real tint might have been could not be guessed, and under the eyes might be seen dark shades of the deepest violet; suffering, indeed, marked the whole character of the countenance. But she seemed very young-one arm was drooping over





the low bed; but it was well formed, the hand small and taper, its third finger encircled by the symbol of her new position -that type of weal or woe-the wedding ring.

But it was evidently not fitted for the finger on which it had been placed; for, as the hand hung almost lifelessly in the position in which the arm had been despairingly flung, the circlet, so far too large, even whilst Mrs. Davis stood and gazed, dropped on the ground. Mrs. Davis shook her head portentously as she picked it up.

"This is no good omen," she thought"a bad business from first to last-and what I'm to do, I'm sure I can't tell. I always liked the poor child; but I'm a lone woman, and must take care of myself, and not bring discredit on my lodgings. Oh! that plaguing bell!" as there came a peal at the street door; "the newspaper for the people





upstairs. I hope it won't wake this poor thing."



the



And Mrs. Davis bustled out to receive

paper, which she always took the liberty of peeping into before she sent it upstairs. "Well, I declare!" she said, as she rapidly ran her spectacled eyes over the columns, scanning here and there what to her were the most interesting pieces of intelligence. Having lived all her life in great families, she still had a hankering after their doings, reading with interest every account of fashionable entertainments, arrivals, departures, marriages, deaths, and births, dwelling with old feelings of deference upon great names associated with reminscences of former times, when she was an important housekeeper, presiding over an aristocratic establishment - well remembered forms, faces, and histories, connected with many a noble name, appearing now before





her as they presented themselves to her sight in the columns of the "Morning Post," as "bright dreams of the past;" for though it had ever been Mrs. Davis's ambition to have a home of her own, she still fondly dwelt in imagination upon the "flesh pots of Egypt," a contrast assuredly to her present mode of life, a lodging-house keeper on a small scale. "But home is home, be it ever so homely," was the housekeeper's consolatory reflection when the lodgers upstairs were "worreting," or the maid of all work incorrigibly dirty.

But to return to Mrs. Davis's exclamation, as her eye caught one particular name amongst the arrivals.

"Well, I declare, if the Countess of Sunderland has not returned to Carlton Gardens; a strange time of year for her to leave Belfield; but," she added, "a thought has struck me. I'll just go off this evening, and





advise with her what is to be done with Miss Linda; they can't have cast her off after all the work the family have made about her. Oh, there's the drawing-room bell; what a hurry those people always are in for their paper, just as if it signifies whether they have it a few minutes sooner or later."

And away she bustled to deliver the "Morning Post," and ask what was required for dinner.





CHAPTER II.



It was late in the day before the miserable inmate of the inner parlour opened her eyes she had slept the sleep of utter exhaustion. Her first impulse was to start up and look wildly around her, the next to press her hand upon her forehead, as if to recall recollection. With a shiver, she hurriedly looked at the third finger of her left hand, and then clasping both hands together, she raised her eyes to Heaven, ejaculating:

"Thank God! Then it cannot be."

Mrs. Davis, who had been anxiously watching for her awakening, hearing the





sound of her voice, was in an instant by her side.

"Oh! Mrs. Davis," Linda exclaimed, "I have had such a terrible dream; but is it really only a dream ?" she added, looking anxiously at her, "for, thank God, thank God, I have no ring upon my finger!"

"Never mind your dream, my dear, but just drink this cup of tea; I have put a taste of brandy in it-for you'll die from want."

"Die!" the girl exclaimed, wildly; "and why not, pray? Why should I live?"

"Oh, that's not pretty talk," Mrs. Davis replied, as she stood by the bed, and insisted upon every drop of the tea being swallowed, and a small piece of toast. "And now lie still again, and try to have another nap. I am obliged to go out by and by on a little business, so it's no use your troubling yourself by getting up."





Linda fell back upon the pillow, and began to meditate. The shades of sleep were passing away, her mind and perception beginning to become clearer; she started up and looked around.

Yes, it is no dream," she at length drearily exclaimed. "There is my bonnet and cloak; my clothes just thrown upon Mrs. Davis's bed. Oh! it is no dream," she almost shrieked. "Mrs. Davis, oh, come here. Oh! what shall I do? what shall I do? But the ring! the ring! It is not here; and as sure as that I am lying upon this bed he put it on my finger. Oh! Mrs. Davis, come quickly."

"Well, this is a pretty business," the good woman murmured, as she bustled in, and found her charge in a state of excitement almost amounting to frenzy.

"So it is true after all, and no dream," Linda cried; "but where is the ring ?" she demanded.





"Why, for the matter of that, I've got it; it dropped off your finger as your hand hung down when you were asleep. Yes, it is all too true, poor child; you are married, for certain sure; for all he looked so fierce and crazy, he is your husband, for good and all, but no doubt it will come right in the end. He'll come back again, so don't fret."

Linda turned abruptly in the bed, and covered her face with the clothes, smothering as she did so a cry of despair. Then again she spoke

"Give me that ring, Mrs. Davis."

On receiving it, she immediately put it on, placing over it a handsome turquoise guard, which she removed from another finger, then returned to her former attitude, hiding her face from observation, and remaining so still that Mrs. Davis hoped she had once more fallen asleep, and making her preparations for going out as noiselessly





as possible, she soon sallied forth, desiring the maid servant to look now and then after the young lady. When the house door closed with its usual sound, Linda uncovered her face, again looked around, and again came the despairing words :

"Oh! what can I do? I cannot stay here; I must go; but where? I can never show my face again. I am disgraced for ever by this badge," and she looked at the wedding ring. "Oh! why did he make me marry him ?"

She lay some time meditating profoundly. Sarah peeped in, full of curiosity about the young lady, suspecting from the occurrences of the morning that some wonderful mystery was going forward. She saw that Linda's eyes were wide open, so thought she might venture a word or two.

"Are you better, Miss ?" she inquired. "Can I get you anything?"





"No," was the abrupt answer; and Sarah, leaving the door open, went into the front parlour to fidget about the fire; presently she again approached the bed.

"If you please, Miss, I think this letter is for you; I found it on the mantelpiece." Linda started up, and seized the letter held to her by the maid.







Bring a candle quickly," she gasped; and now go," she added, as one was placed in her hand.

These words she read:

"You have performed your rash promise-the law binds you to me as a wife— to the extinction of every hope of happiness to either of us-but you have brought all this upon yourself, Linda, by your blind, weak affection for a brute-an unprincipled villain, -such I freely acknowledge myself to be; you will, however, never see me again; henceforth we must be as





strangers. I owe you a deep debt of gratitude for having, by this sacrifice of yourself, freed me from the yoke of a galling chain, which, however, has already eaten into my heart, leaving me a shattered wreck, in mind almost a madman. Our marriage will be duly recorded in the papers, and then, God help you, Linda! you will receive no quarter from my side of the house; at least not from my mother, and my father is always powerless; and your own friends will be indignant. You will require protection, but I know not where to advise your seeking it. Yes, you may well exclaim against my brutality, my reckless selfishness towards one so young, so good, so worthy of better things; but, Linda, I am mad, my brain is on fire, my whole being in a state which my mind cannot control. Draw upon my banker for one hundred pounds quarterly, that is all I can





at present spare you from my allowance. In case of present need, I enclose notes amounting to the first quarter. God protect you, Linda! We shall never meet again."

There was no signature to this cruel document. Linda read it over and over again, and whilst so doing her countenance underwent a complete change; its paleness vanished, the brightest crimson usurped its place, her eyes flashed with indignant fire.

At length she crushed the paper in her hand, and setting her small teeth with fierce anger, sprang from the bed, and hastily commenced dressing herself.

"See me again!" she murmured, "no, never! Truly so he says, and he holds that out to me as a threat. Did I ask him to

marry me? Such a thought never entered my mind, until, for his sake, to save him from ruin, I madly consented. And his money!" she continued, spurning indig





nantly with her foot the crumpled letter with its enclosure, which had fallen on the floor; "his money, I'll have none of it,

no, not if I am starving, and have to beg my daily food-not I." Hastily as her trembling hands could lend their assistance she dressed herself, and then proceeded to fill a carpet-bag. The contents of her purse were anxiously examined, some sovereigns and silver poured forth upon the table, and then replaced.

"I cannot spare any of this," she said, in a softened tone," and yet I must leave something for Mrs. Davis, so kind as she has been to me;" and then, as if a sudden thought had struck her, she opened a box in which were trinkets; sighing deeply as she examined them separately, she said, "Ah, this I cannot give- nor this this-they are all so dear to me, for the sake of those who gave them-and these



nor





were my mother's; but this brooch," and she selected a very handsome one - this I will leave as a gift for the dear old woman; I care not for that great man who gave it to me because I sang so well that night-oh, that night!" and she wrung her hands as if stung by some painful recollection.

The costly brooch was placed in a small box and enclosed to Mrs. Davis with a few scrawled lines.

"I have no money to spare, dear Mrs. Davis, but accept this brooch, which I believe valuable, for the sake of the unhappy, but most grateful,



"LINDA."



"And now I must go," the girl exclaimed; "yes, go, but where? no matter!a vagabond and fugitive on the face of the earth I shall henceforward be," and she laughed wildly





"I must hide my head somewhere, anywhere, so that they never see or hear of me any more; and yet, why should this be?" she continued, her fierce mood in a moment changing, "what have I done so very, very bad to be thus treated? Foolish, thoughtless, easily led, I have been; but oh! not wicked." Tears now fell in torrents as she put on her cloak and bonnet.

"Poor miserable Linda!" she sobbed, "what am I to do? but I had almost forgotten," and with a loathing expression, as if she were touching some noxious reptile, she picked up the letter which still remained disregarded on the floor, "this must be done."

She refolded and placed it in an envelope, with its enclosure of bank notes. directed and securely sealed it. "Now I

have done with him for ever," she cried;

"he has added insult to injury - did he





think I would exist upon his money, I who henceforth must always loathe the very thought of him, I who never can forgive him-no, never, never!"



her



She stood for some minutes transfixed,

young white face transformed, painful to contemplate, disfigured as it was by the unnatural feelings which convulsed her heart. "But I must go," she again said, "Mrs. Davis will soon return." The box containing her trinkets was hurriedly added to the contents of the carpet-bag. "I shall want these probably to obtain bread," she murmured; then opening the door gently, she saw Sarah ascending the stairs, bearing the large tray containing the lodgers' dinner, and then, stealing from the room and opening the street door, went forth into the dark foggy atmosphere of a December evening.





CHAPTER III.



MRS. DAVIS, much perplexed in mind, had set out on her expedition to Carlton Gardens, an omnibus conveying her within a short distance from her destination.





Well, Thomas," she said to the porter who admitted her, "so the family are come to town--rather early for them, is it not ?"





My lady is the only one who is staying here, but Lord Sinclair is expected this evening her ladyship does not intend to make any long stay, I believe."

"Can I see my lady?" Mrs. Davis demanded, "I am come to speak to her upon a matter of particular business."





The porter called to a footman and desired him to ask the lady's maid whether her ladyship could see Mrs. Davis. The ex-housekeeper was not long kept waiting; she was informed that she might go immediately to her ladyship's dressing-room.

Lady Sunderland kindly greeted her old servant, who had served her long and faithfully. "Well, Mrs. Davis," she said, after the first greetings were over, “what is it that you wish so particularly to say to me? Sit down and let me hear."

"Well, my lady," Mrs. Davis began, "I am in a very worried state, I can assure you, and it is all about Miss Linda!"

"Miss Linda!" the lady exclaimed, with much excitement, "for Heaven's sake what of her? We are all in much distress and perplexity about that unfortunate girlwhere is she?"

"At my house, my lady."





"Oh, what a relief! but tell me all about it."

"I fear, my lady, you may say that I have done very wrong, and I daresay,— indeed, I am sure I have, but I really was taken so by surprise that I scarcely knew what I did, and indeed I had no option; I was obliged to go."

"Go where? pray say at once what it is, for I am really most anxious, Mrs. Davis," demanded Lady Sunderland.

"To the church to see her married, my lady."

"Married! and to whom?" was the excited exclamation.

"That I cannot tell," Mrs. Davis continued, "but it will be all down in the register book."

"At what church was the ceremony performed?"

"Upon my word, my lady, for the life





of me I cannot tell; we went a long way, and the fog was so thick that I could see nothing at all—a dismal old place a long way off it seemed, that's all I can say."

"But," said Lady Sunderland, knowing from experience that she had better let Mrs. Davis relate the story in her own way, "tell me all about it from the beginning; I will not interrupt you."



แ



Well, my lady, this is the true account. The day before yesterday, about eight o'clock in the evening, a cab stopped at my door; says I, that's not for us, the lodgers are gone out for the day-but soon there came a loud ring at the street bell; I heard the steps let down, and in another moment, Sarah having opened the door, who should stand before me but Miss Linda, looking as white as a ghost. 'Miss Linda,' said I, where in the world do you come from?'





"Dear Mrs. Davis,' said she, will you take me in for a few nights?'

"Take you in, my dear, what do you



mean?'




Why, give me a bed only for a few days. Say quickly, will you or will you. not? for I must get into that cab and go elsewhere.'

"I was taken so all of a heap that I answered, 'Well, I'll try, dear, but why not go to Carlton Gardens?'

"Carlton Gardens!' she almost shrieked, เ never, never! say at once, Mrs. Davis, yes or no,' and she stamped with her foot.

"And then I remembered the little pressbed in my room that I could make up for her. I could not turn the child into the street at that time of night; so she paid the cab, and her carpet-bag was taken in.

"I was shocked and sorry when I looked at the poor thing, so changed was she, and





with a strange look upon her face; her eyes staring so wildly, and such a dark expression about her countenance altogether.

“I said, 'What is the matter, Miss Linda? I thought you were in Scotland, with your uncle.'







"Then she started up, quite frightening me out of my senses, and catching hold of my hands, cried, 'Mrs. Davis, I beseech, I implore you to ask no questions, but let me stay here a few days, and then I shall go, and be no more trouble to you or any one.' Upon my word, I thought, this is a pretty business-some scrape the child has got into; what will all her friends say to this? But of one thing I'm sure, they would think no harm of me for taking her in for a night or two, whatever she may have done, and so I set about making her a cup of tea, and getting the little press-bed ready, for indeed she looked fit to drop. I





soon got her to bed, she never speaking a word, but looking so miserable."

"You did most kindly, Mrs. Davis," Lady Sunderland said, with much feeling. "This is indeed a sad story."

 Yes, and I haven't come to half the worst part of it, my lady. All the next day she sat looking the picture of misery, starting at every sound, doing nothing but occasionally looking into a Bradshaw which lay on the table. I tried to get her to talk, but it was of no use. Sarah told me, when I was out she wrote a letter and put it into the box herself-we have one close at hand. When we went to bed that night, she said, 'You must let me stay a day or two longer, Mrs. Davis, I have not yet quite settled my plans.' I told her that there was no hurry, only I wished I could see her more cheerful. "Cheerful!' she repeated, and laughed; but I would as soon have heard her cry, as give





such a laugh as that. Well, and so three days passed. This morning was so dark, with such a fog-I question whether I ever saw a worse one-that we did not sit down to breakfast till nearly nine. I had not tasted a mouthful before a cab rushed up to the door, a violent ring came next, and then the door suddenly opened, and in walked a man. 'Linda!' he said, in a harsh sort of voice, 'make haste and come with me, all is ready waiting for our marriage.'

"Miss Linda, who had started up, looking whiter than ever, now covered her face with her hands, and gave a sort of cry.

"Yes, we are to be married; you remember your promise, and you know the conditions.'-'For Heaven's sake,' he added, stamping his foot impatiently, 'put on your bonnet without any further delay, you, Madam, had better come with us,



and





to see that all is right, that we are joined together for ever and for aye.'

"Oh, in what a sneering, jeering tone were these words spoken! To my surprise Miss Linda walked deliberately into the next room, and put on her bonnet and cloak, and then again the gentleman said: 'And you, Madam, pray make haste, the parson and clerk are both waiting to solemnise these auspicious nuptials.' felt as if I were spell-bound, so I obeyed, put on my things, shivering with cold, and not having had a bit or sup in my poor stomach that blessed morning; and was thrust into the cab with Miss Linda by the gentleman, who jumped in after us.



I



"Drive on, you know where,' he said to the cabman, and we did drive on. In all my life I never had such a drive; the cold so bitter, the fog so dense, we were almost in darkness, Miss Linda, poor





thing, trembling and shaking by my side, and that man-what he was even like I could not tell, so buttoned up and shawled was he, and his hat slouched over his face. Not a word was spoken by any of us, good, bad, or indifferent, and when the cab stopped, it was as dark as night. All I can say is that this fellow, whoever he may be, is a wretch without a spark of feeling."

Mrs. Davis then gave a graphic description of what we have already related, ending by saying, "If that man is not a wicked one, or a madman, I'm much mistaken, and I am very grieved to think I had not sent for the police, and had him taken up, instead of allowing him to drag me with that poor child to witness such a disgraceful business."

Lady Sunderland looked inexpressibly


shocked; she was silent from emotion for some minutes, and then said:

"It is a pity, indeed, that this marriage was allowed to take place."

"Yes, my lady, it was, and I sorely repent not having endeavoured to prevent it; my only excuse is, that from Miss Linda's state of mind I verily believed something wrong had happened; and I thought, perhaps, that marriage was the best thing to be done; and, indeed, if you had heard the man, how he commanded us, we could not choose but to obey."

"And you have left Linda, you say, in



bed ?"



"Yes, and I hope asleep; the ruffian declared they should never meet again on earth, and I'm sure he meant what he said, for if she had been a reptile, he could not have shuddered more at her touch, as he shook her off when the poor thing clung to





him, imploring that he would not leave her thus."

Lady Sunderland then said: "To tell you the truth, Mrs. Davis, it was on Linda's account that I came to London, and I have desired Sinclair to join me here to-night for the same reason; she left Scotland, and her friends had no idea why, or where she had gone. As soon as we heard of it, as the unfortunate girl has so long been under our protection, Sinclair and I thought it our duty, as well as its being our anxious desire, to endeavour to gain some tidings of her. Lady Elizabeth is in much distress about this child of her adoption. I will consult with my son, and you shall hear from us to-morrow. Now, you had better return home, for after what you have told me, I do not think Linda is in a fit condition to be left alone. I will order a cab for you."

On Mrs. Davis's return, her consterna





tion may be imagined when Sarah met her at the door with the information that the young lady had disappeared. She only waited to ascertain that this intelligence was true, to find the letter containing the brooch, and the few corroborating lines from Linda, and the same cab which had brought her from Carlton Gardens conveyed her back to the presence of Lady Sunderland, who now had been joined by her son, Lord Sinclair. They were at the very moment talking over this most perplexing and distressing business when Mrs. Davis again appeared before them.





CHAPTER IV.



THE night was still thick with fog, as Linda walked on, little heeding which way she went. She had no decided plans, although many floated through her mind. Her present almost frenzied desire was to remove herself somewhere- anywhere—to some impenetrable distance far from all whom she had ever seen before. Pursuing the course of her entangled thoughts and schemes, she first of all deposited her letter in a post office, and then looked inquiringly into the shops of the busy streets in which she by chance found herself the gas with which





they were lighted displaying their different articles for sale.





Suddenly she stopped before one, and gazed into it thoughtfully. "Yes," she murmured, "that is what I want; that will be the best dress for me-the most effectual disguise."

She entered the shop, and addressed a person who was serving behind the counter a pale, gentle-looking widow.

"I want a widow's cap," Linda demanded, "and a bonnet and veil."

The woman looked up into the speaker's face. A fellow-sufferer-a bereaved one, like herself, she thought. The face was concealed by the thick veil.

Several caps were brought forward for the approbation of the customer.

"Oh!" Linda said, impatiently, "I don't care which I have-anything will do."

"But will you not try them on ?" was asked.





"No, I have not time; now, a bonnet, quickly."

"I have only one quite finished," the shopkeeper replied; "but I fear it will be too large, and also too old-looking, if it is for you, madam," for a glimpse had been caught through the folds of the veil of a very young face.

"Never mind, never mind," was the impatient answer; "I don't care how old it will make me look-the older the better."

The person who served her, then took from a bandbox a lugubrious black bonnet with its long heavy crape fall, which must effectually have hidden every part of the face of the wearer save the eyes, the only part not left in impenetrable darkness by the double folding of the thick material.

"That will do, I daresay; and those things!—I must have some of them, I suppose," Linda continued, pointing to





some collars and cuffs, commonly called



weepers.



“What am I to pay for all this ?" she then asked.

"One pound fifteen," she was told, when the bill was added up.

Linda groaned as she drew forth her purse. How little money would be left!

"But it cannot be helped," unconsciously she said aloud. Then she paused and reflected.

"I must put on these things somewhere; but where can that be ?"

She added, "Perhaps you will let me go into that room and change my bonnet," and receiving a sanction to this request, she found herself in the small parlour adjoining the shop, in which there was a little pale boy seated at a table writing a copy.

Before she removed the bonnet from her head, Linda turned suddenly round and said :





"What will you allow me for this bonnet and Honiton lace veil? I shall never wear them any more; and," she added in a gentler, almost a supplicating tone, "it will be doing me a special kindness if you would take them, for I have little money to spare; and these things, pointing to the mourning, I must have." And so saying, she removed the pretty little fancy straw bonnet from her head and presented it to the milliner, who looked with amazement upon the uncovered face of the young widow, her woman's heart melting at the sight; an anxious feeling for the poor girl mingling with distrust as to what her real condition might be, and rendering her for a moment unable to notice the request. Mrs. Lewis stood holding the bonnet in her hand, with her eyes fixed upon Linda, who began hastily to equip herself in her new head gear. It was a bonnet evidently intended for an





elderly woman of ample dimensions, far too large for the small head on which it had been placed. Linda looked at herself fixedly in a mirror which hung over the chimney-piece, and certainly the image it reflected was a strange anomaly-such a mixture of the sad and ludicrous.

The slight young figure seemed so out of character, covered by its enormous summit, the little white face almost totally lost in its vast amplitude.

And Linda, whilst she thus beheld herself, in spite of her pre-occupied miserable feelings, suddenly felt a sense of the ridiculous rise in her mind. She turned away her head for a moment, and in so doing encountered the eyes of the boy, who had been curiously watching her movements. He had now a queer sort of smile upon his lips. The contrast of the girl's young face and her hideous head-dress had





also evidently struck him, for as she turned her full face upon him he laughed aloud, thinking no doubt the young lady was only amusing herself by trying on the ugly bonnet.

Laughter is very infectious, particularly to one who was in the nervously excited state of our heroine.

To Mrs. Lewis's consternation, she saw the previously wretched-looking young widow burst into a convulsive fit of laughter, which she vainly endeavoured to control, and which continued to increase. Peal after peal succeeded, re-echoed by the boy, until their character changed to tears and hysterical sobs.

The boy, who had at first joined heartily in the merriment, now began to look frightened, as his mother told him to be quiet, and fetch a glass of water. She saw how it was with the poor girl, and was truly





sorry. Thoroughly exhausted was Linda when she began to recover.

"Shall I send for a cab, Ma'am, to take you home?" Mrs. Lewis demanded.

"Home! I have no home! I want to sail for France to-night."

"You cannot possibly do that; you are not fit."

"But I must-I must," and she looked round for the bonnet.

 If you can only wait till to-morrow, I can make



another one, you



that will suit you much better," Mrs. Lewis suggested. "I must go. I have no place in London where I can remain till morning."

Mrs. Lewis felt some very imprudent risings at her heart as she looked at the miserable, tear-stained face of the young creature before her. She longed to say, "I will give you a night's lodging."

She had once possessed a daughter; about





Linda's age she must have been when she died, and the thoughts of the still mourning mother reverted to her. But she hesitated: would it be right? Who and what might the stranger not be? Certainly she looked in all ways respectable; indeed, far above the common class, equipped as she was in a well-made silk dress, with all else to correspond; her whole bearing her voice, her hands, bespeaking her grade of life; and then the wedding ring, and its handsome guard of turquoises -the pretty little watch hanging at her side all were unmistakeable tokens in





Mrs. Lewis's eyes of her being a young lady. Still there must be something very wrong to bring her to this pass.

"Yes, I must go," Linda gasped, trembling in every limb.

"Mother!" exclaimed the boy, "why cannot the young lady stop here to-night?





She can have my bed, you know, and I can sleep with you."

Mrs. Lewis still stood irresolute.

"Poor girl! what may not become of her if I turn her out into the streets? No, I dare not do so; I should have the sin upon my conscience as long as I lived. No, it cannot, must not be."

"Yes, Miss; Ma'am, I ought to say, but you really look so very young; pray let me, as George suggests, offer you the protection of my humble dwelling for the night; it is but homely the accommodation I can afford you, but to such as it is you are heartily welcome."

Linda lifted up her head, which had sunk very low, quickly glanced at the kind woman, and in that face read naught but the purest benevolence.

"I had better go," she faltered, turning till paler; "why should I be a trouble to





you, I, a perfect stranger ?" and she attempted to rise, but the boy now advanced.

"No, young lady, pray stay with us; mother wishes it, she always speaks the truth;" and with gentle force, he made her sit down again, and poor Linda, her heart touched and softened by this unlooked-for kindness, throwing her arms round the boy's neck, wept, now gently and silently. "Yes, indeed you must stay, my dear," Mrs. Lewis added, much affected, "and you must have refreshment. I am sure you look in need of it. Georgie, run for the corkscrew, the lady must have a glass of wine immediately," for she saw how faint she looked; "how fortunate that I have some to give you, a present from my brother only yesterday; and George, bring up the cold fowl, and the bread and country butter. You have come at a fortunate time, Ma'am, for we had a hamper of good





things from the country at the same time; my brother is a farmer in a large way."



be



And soon Linda was seated at the widow's hospitable board, she and her son, with pleased alacrity, waiting upon her, for miserable as she was, she was still so unheroine-like as to very hungry, only having tasted one cup of tea during the whole of that agitating day. Whilst thus engaged, Mrs. Lewis left her in the charge of George, whilst she went to prepare her sleeping accommodation, and light a fire in the room to give it a cheerful appearance; and poor Linda, refreshed and revived by the genial kindness of her hosts and the nourishment she so much required, could now smile upon her attendant, the interesting little boy, who gazed at her with such tender concern.

"You and your mother are very good," at length she said, in a more natural manner, as she held out her hand and drew him towards her.





"Mother is always good," he said.



"And so are you, I am sure, George; you are a happy boy to have a mother, and such a kind one."

Yes, indeed," was the answer; "but," he added, his eyes filling with tears, “a year ago I had a father and a sister, and since we lost them we have not been very happy, and we have had other troubles. You see how ill poor mother looks."

Mrs. Lewis now appeared, and looked with pleasure upon Linda's face, whose expression had so changed, the fierce look gone; and though it was flushed, and her eyes were too bright, still there was more repose altogether in her voice and mien, when again she poured forth her thanks and apologies for the trouble she was giving.

Mrs. Lewis thought, "She is far too bonny to be all alone in the wide world," and then she said,





"My accommodation is but small, my dear young lady.”

"Oh, anything will do for me," replied Linda, "but I wish to start for France to-morrow night, and I would rather it was at night that I embark; therefore could you allow me to remain till then, and tomorrow, you would perhaps make some purchases for me? I have not much money, but some trinkets of value, which I should be glad to dispose of."

And thus Linda, without a shadow of mistrust, threw herself upon the protection of a complete stranger. Providential, indeed, for her that merciful fate had drawn her into the humble abode of this excellent woman!

"Well, we will talk all about it tomorrow. I must put you to bed, and when there, I shall give you one of my composing draughts: blessings they have been to me,





young lady, I can assure you, when my sorrow was at its height."

And Linda saw, as she looked upon that face, marked with the unmistakeable lines of grief, that there was one near her who had indeed suffered deeply.

Georgie having now announced that all was ready and the fire burning up, Mrs. Lewis ushered her guest into the sleeping apartment.

The room was well furnished with a large, handsome bed, and an air of comfort and superiority pervaded its aspect, little to be expected from the general impression given by the humble little shop down stairs.

A small iron bedstead was the couch prepared for Linda, the sheets white and fine.

"You won't mind my little Georgie sleeping with me, he's but a baby almost, and, to tell the truth, I have not been able to afford to furnish any other room; but we





shall dress in the next, to make this all tidy for you."

Linda cared not. She began, indeed, to feel that, had she attempted any further exertion that night, she must have sunk at once. The night-dress was brought forth from the heavy bag she had dragged about with her, and then too gladly she laid herself down on the clean little bed.

Mrs. Lewis set about concocting the composing draught, whose efficacy she so much vaunted, and almost immediately after it the good woman had the pleasure of seeing her guest fall into a quiet sleep. Not till then did the good woman leave her to spend part of the night in making a suitable bonnet for the young widow.





CHAPTER V.



LINDA slept all night the sleep of utter prostration of mind and body.

When, at length, she opened her eyes, with a start, she roused herself and looked wildly, and in bewilderment, around the



room.



We all know how painful is the awakening from a slumber of complete forgetfulness, after any crushing misfortune has befallen us; the temporary oblivion of our senses scarcely compensating for the agony of renewed recollection.

She sat up, and listened to the din of vehicles passing and repassing that noisy



street.





"Where am I ?" she cried.

The other bed was empty, its occupants had long left it; she was alone in her wretchedness, and soon the whole story of her misery rushed like an overwhelming flood into her mind, and piteous was the tone in which she exclaimed





"Unfortunate Linda, what is to become of you!" and then followed heartrending sobs and tears.

Poor girl, she thought herself at this moment friendless, for her unbroken spirit had not yet made a friend of Him" who sticketh closer than any brother." She had not yet implored guidance from above, judgment to know what was right, and strength to perform it. No; in her weak folly she had madly plunged upon the waves of this fearful world, and that mercy had for the present moment saved her, and conducted the rash girl to this safe haven,





where, for a brief space, she might breathe in peace. Linda was not long left alone to weep; soon she was joined by her kind hostess.

"My dear young lady, what is the matter?" she exclaimed, on finding her thus agitated.

"Oh! Mrs. Lewis, I am so wretched. Oh, what is to become of me? I am so very, very miserable."

And Linda, in her despair, threw her arms round the kind woman's neck, feeling balm and solace whilst weeping forth her tears upon that compassionate bosom.

Mrs. Lewis allowed the

paroxysm to subside, and then gently extricating herself from the encircling arms, said,

"Now, I must light the fire; it is a bitter morning; and then I shall bring you some breakfast. You must try, my dear, to compose yourself; be still, and lift up your heart in prayer. If you have heavy





sorrows, nothing in the world can assist you to bear them but bringing all your troubles to God. I speak, who have felt how comparatively worthless is every other sort of help."

"Pray! Mrs. Lewis-I hardly know how to pray."

Mrs. Lewis looked aghast.

"My dear, what do you mean? Have you never been taught to pray?" she anxiously demanded.

"Oh, yes I have, of course, said my





prayers morning and evening, but is that praying? They never seemed to do me any good, and since I have been so very miserable, I have left them off entirely."

Mrs. Lewis shook her head gravelyalmost sternly; but pity for the poor benighted girl soon changed the harsh feeling which was beginning to rise in her breast, and she said,





"My dear, you need not use long prayers to make your petitions. You have only to lift up your heart and cry, 'God be merciful



to me a sinner.""



Linda sprang up from her pillow, her face flushing crimson, her eyes flashing fire. "Mrs. Lewis," she said, "what do you mean? Are you one of those who think ill of me? How dare you speak those words? I am not a sinner. I will get up and go; I will not stay a moment longer with one who misjudges me, who thinks she is harbouring a sinner;" and indignant looked the face of the miserable girl.

"My dear, I did not mean to offend; I only spoke to you as a fellow-sinner. We are all sinners; we all have need to cry for mercy, even those amongst us who appear the best, the holiest. Can you be an excepted one from the curse of sin which has fallen upon all mankind? My dear young





lady," the widow continued, with much solemnity, "I fear indeed, until you can, with humble contrition and true faith, repeat those words which have given you such offence, there can be no peace, no help, no strength vouchsafed to you in your great trouble, whatever it may be. Yes, I can truly say that, amidst all my afflictions, the sorest and bitterest of them all have been my sins, my mistrust of Him; dwelling, as I have done selfishly, on the weight of my sorrows, rather than on His justice and wisdom; murmuring at His will, giving way to impatience, judging harshly and cruelly, and feeling hard unforgiveness at my heart against those who had wronged me. These are what I call sins, my dear, with many, many others."

Linda's tears were again falling, but now gently she reached forth her hand, and took possession of one of Mrs. Lewis's.





"You a sinner, Mrs. Lewis-you, who have done such a work of charity by me, sheltered a friendless unknown girl, taken her to your kind heart without a fear or scruple!"

"My dear, that is no merit in me, it is all God's work in my heart; I only followed the dictates of his leading. 'A cup of cold water given in His name.""

Linda was again clasping her arms round the neck of this humble woman, her heart warming towards her as it never yet had done towards mortal woman.

"Oh! dear, kind Mrs. Lewis," she murmured, "teach me to know myself, and to see my sins; but-" she continued, throwing herself again helplessly on the pillow, "I must go, I must go;" and she flung her arm over her head in impotent distress.

"Poor child!" the widow interposed, "do not thus agitate yourself; I shall go





and prepare your breakfast; and whilst I am gone, repeat those words which gave you so much offence, over and over again, and be not dismayed if they bring before your eyes, hideous forms in the shape of trangressions innumerable, both of commission and omission, be not overwhelmed,― seeing your danger, will ensure your future safety as well as peace and comfort."

Mrs. Lewis left her, and Linda lay for some moments with clasped hands and eyes raised to heaven; her lips moved, but no sound issued from them, and thus she remained till her kind hostess brought up a small tray, on which was laid a neat breakfast, and then Mrs. Lewis proceeded to make up the fire, and put the room in order.

After she was dressed Linda requested to be allowed to remain entirely upstairs till she took her final departure.

“I would rather not be seen by any one,"





she said; "it must be in the dark that I



must leave you.'



"Not to-day, my dear," was the answer, in this snow storm; and, indeed, you are not fit to undertake the passage over to France; you require some rest; besides, did you not say you wanted several things that I can get for you ? There is no hurry for





you to go, if you can put up with what I am able to offer. I keep no servant, Georgie and I do all that is required, with the assistance of a charwoman once a week." Linda's countenance brightened she heaved a sigh of relief.







"A day of peace at least," she thought. Her thanks were warm and full of gratitude. It was, indeed, a desolate road which lay stretched before her. Her present intention was to go to Paris, and obtain a livelihood by teaching music,-if possible, to become a teacher in some school. But she had no





friends to whom she chose to apply, and how would she be received, a perfect stranger, without any references to give? But she made no calculations as to the probable results of her plan-in England, she would not, could not, stay. But now, launched upon the sea of uncertainty, the excitement of the moment passed, she began to view her situation more dispassionately, to look with black dismay upon the future. "But what else can I do but hide myself?" she thought; "have I not lost everything, even the respect of those who once cared for me? And he!"

How much is implied by those simple pronouns, he or she!





CHAPTER VI.



WHEN Linda was settled comfortably in the room for the day, a bright fire enlivening the gloom of the dark atmosphere, she began to make some necessary arrangements for the future.

She opened her trinket box, which really contained some articles of value-a cross and a ring of diamonds, and many lesser ornaments of worth.

She selected the cross, and the next time Mrs. Lewis appeared, showed it to her, saying,

"You must sell this for me; I shall want the money."

Mrs. Lewis looked much perplexed,









My dear young lady, I really do not know how to act; it is not from idle curiosity, but I wish you would give me more of your confidence. I know not even your name."





'My name, my name!" and the girl pressed her forehead distractedly with her hand.  My name," she repeated, "do you wish to know it?" and again she paused, as if lost in reflection.

"It would be pleasanter," was the answer, in a hesitating tone of voice.

Linda burst into one of those unnatural peals of laughter which grate so unpleasantly upon the ear, and then said—

"You may call me," and again she





pondered; yes, you may call me Mrs. Lindsey; Rosa Lindsey, will that do?" "My dear," Mrs. Lewis again continued, interrogatively, "you are really married,





"What do you mean?" cried Linda, starting up, and fiercely confronting her. "What do you take me for? Not some vile girl, I hope. If you suspect me in any way, I had better go at once. Am I always to be treated as if I was the worst of sinners?" she cried, indignant tears now falling quickly down her cheeks. "I am lawfully married, so help me God!"

The good woman felt more than ever sorry for this poor, desolate, wayward girl. She kindly took her hand, and drawing her gently towards her, said—

"You are very young to be a widow, poor thing."

"I have lost my husband, Mrs. Lewis," Linda replied, disconsolately; "but if you wish really to befriend me, ask no questions; only believe me, when I solemnly assure you that I am no disgrace to your dwelling. If I were to tell you





all, I feel sure, that instead of blaming me severely, you would pity more than condemn me. I am young-foolish, and you have already taught me to acknowledge myself sinful, but I have not acted in such a manner as would oblige you to spurn me from your presence and that of your innocent child. Will you believe me? Will you trust me, dear, kind woman?"

And Linda, now all gentleness, knelt at the feet of the thoroughly perplexed and mystified Mrs. Lewis.







My dear, pray don't do such a thing," she exclaimed, as she raised her. "Yes, be sure that I will do all I can for you." "But will you believe me-trust me?" again Linda impetuously demanded. "Yes, I will try to do so."

And then, with a brightened countenance, Linda kissed and thanked her newly-found friend.





"And now," she said, "I must tell you my plans. I want to go to Paris, and, if possible, to get into a school, to gain a livelihood by teaching music."

"But have you any friends there who can recommend you ?"



"None."



"Where do you mean to go, in the first instance?"

Linda shook her head, then added, "I have no idea."

"Oh, this is a mad scheme," Mrs. Lewis exclaimed, "it will never do; why not stop in England, and try to do what you say?"

"I tell you I cannot, Mrs. Lewis,” Linda again petulantly broke forth, stamping with her small foot, "I cannot stay in England, and I have heard there are places in Paris where one can board and lodge, till I find something else, and English governesses get on well abroad, that I know. I once had a





French governess, who told me all about it, so pray say nothing more on the subject."

Mrs. Lewis groaned in spirit; but she saw it was useless to argue the point just now with the impatient girl, so she sat down and began to cogitate what was best to be done in this perplexing case.

"This cross," she reflected, looking at that which she held in her hand, "must belong to one of some position above the common grade; it is valuable," and she gazed fixedly at the girl. "Yes, she is indeed above the common rank, I am quite certain; that one can tell by a glance at her proud look; my proper course ought to be to put an advertisement into the papers, to tell her friends where she is."

Linda was watching intensely the open, speaking countenance of the widow, and as if by some species of clairvoyance she had read the thoughts which were passing





through Mrs. Lewis's mind, she cried, "Mrs. Lewis, you are not going to betray me!" and sprang eagerly towards her. "Swear that you will not," she continued, her excitement becoming quite fearful to behold," or on your head will rest the consequences. My friends shall never see me again alive. Where," and she looked around," are my bonnet and cloak ?" Mrs. Lewis, now fairly terrified by the wild, determined looks which glared upon her, promised any thing Linda demanded. Visions of the Serpentine, the Thames, strychnine, &c. &c., flashed before her imagination as she looked upon this young Pythoness. The meek woman felt angry with herself for the little firmness she could command, to execute what her conscience pointed out as the right path to pursue, and for so completely succumbing to this young creature, this stranger of only a few hours'





acquaintance. Now, all she felt inclined to do, was to soothe and pacify her by any means in her power. There was something very interesting in Linda's appearance. Her figure was slender, though not yet arrived at its full perfection; her teeth beautiful. There was no decided beauty in the tout ensemble of the small oval face; still there was that about it which attracts the eye of the beholder, and causes one to think, "how attractive that girl will be!"

And the earnest look of either pleasure or pain, which emanated from her deeplyfringed eyes, gave an indescribable power to the expression of the ever-varying countenance; sometimes such glances of fierce indomitable feelings passing over it, the next moment to be quenched by repentant tears and heartfelt sorrow.

"Well, my dear," Mrs. Lewis said, after they had talked quietly for some time, “if





you really must dispose of your beautiful cross, I think I can manage it for you. As good luck will have it, I have a cousin, a jeweller in a very good way, and I will take it to him."

"And, Mrs. Lewis," Linda interposed, "I want a great many things-a proper dress, a warm cloak, and many necessaries. Oh! all my nice clothes, what a pity I could not bring any more of them!" she exclaimed, and then colouring violently, seeing Mrs. Lewis about to speak, she said, hurriedly

"But never mind all that; you know what I shall want, and you must just get them at once; and my present cloak and bonnet, and this pretty Honiton lace veil, sell them, pray, dear woman. I shall want money until I begin to earn, and then I expect to be quite rich. You don't know how well I can play; and as to my singing, my Italian





masters used to say there was not a finer voice in England, and so it ought to be. Povera madre mia!" she sighed, "she had such a beautiful voice."

Mrs. Lewis groaned in spirit, and thought how little calculated was that proud heart to "earn her bread;" a thing so easily resolved upon, so difficult to accomplish — a task which to perform (setting aside its other impracticabilities) requires a complete change in our natures, a total abnegation of long-rooted habits, opinions, and general bearing—a humble, submissive spirit, a total smouldering of every spark of that excitable pride, ever so ready to blaze up into a fierce flame at every breath of humiliation.

The good woman soon went out to execute her commissions, leaving the shop to be served by Georgie, who, young as he was, most cleverly assisted his mother in every department.





On her return she found Linda impatiently awaiting her; the hours had passed very heavily alone, as she had been, for Georgie was not able to leave the shop for many minutes together. Mrs. Lewis had been very successful in all her undertakings.

Her cousin the jeweller had promised to give an answer the next day.

"The cross, he said, was very valuable; I can tell you, I could not have disposed of it to any one else: even John Harris looked astonished, and asked me ever so many questions. I told him that it was a customer, a lady who was a widow, and he could not doubt me, as a stranger might have done."

And then she proceeded to show the material and crape she had bought for the dress, and a large black mantle, besides many other articles; and also to tell of the





good bargain she had made in disposing of the bonnet, cloak, and veil.

Linda's spirits now rose; she became quite gay, enjoyed her tea greatly, which was brought up by Georgie, and as Mrs. Lewis remained in the parlour during the evening, cutting out the widow's dress, which she intended to make herself, merry peals of laughter were heard from the upstairs room.

The young lady, seemingly forgetful of all her trouble, past, present, and to come, was amusing herself with little Georgie right well; riddles, puzzles, and tricks with an old pack of cards Mrs. Lewis had rummaged out, followed each other in quick succession, to George's infinite delight and wonder.

"Poor girl!" soliloquised the widow, as she listened with astonishment to all this light-hearted mirth, "how soon her troubles





roll off her heart! She could not have cared much for her husband, but she is so very young, it must have been but a short time that they lived together. Ah, me! it is not like the rending of soul and body which it is to lose the husband who has been the light of one's countenance for many a year of happiness, even of sorrow. But it is as well that the young so speedily throw off their grief; they have probably a long life before them; it would not do to carry about for so lengthened a period hearts weighed down by sad remembrances; no, it is as well that they can so soon forget."

And the widow wiped away the tears which were now falling from her meek eyes. "Well," she continued to meditate, "it is most fortunate for her mother, who she tells me is dead, that she is gone, for, oh! what an anxious care such a child would have been! And this plan of going to Paris,





Just now,



it makes me tremble to think of it, and so pretty as she looks at times. when I went upstairs to see what all the noise was about, there she was, with such a colour in her cheeks, her eyes flashing like diamonds, showing all her pretty white teeth, laughing so heartily at some blunders Georgie had made; no wonder, dear boy, his little head is quite bewildered by that queer, taking girl. I believe he thinks her some fairy—something quite supernatural; he is ready to worship her. Ah, me! ah, me! the more I think of it, the more troubled I feel about that unfortunate young creature."

Suddenly a thought darted into her mind:

"Yes, Madame La Tour, I'll go to her to-morrow; she is a decent sort of body; of course she knows all about Paris, and may be able to assist us; to tell us at least where Mrs. Lindsey can safely go, when she





gets to that great wicked city-so full of snares and pitfalls for such as she is. Mrs. Lindsey!" Mrs. Lewis repeated, "such a childish thing to be a wife, and yet she swears she has been lawfully married, and has lost her husband. Upon iny word, this business is enough to drive one mad, it does puzzle and perplex one so terribly."

The preparations went on rapidly. A dress of the most mournful description was completed, with a bonnet and veil to correspond, and a box procured, in which Mrs. Lewis placed everything absolutely necessary for Linda's immediate comfort.

The jeweller had given a much larger sum for the cross than she had hoped for, so that, after having remunerated Mrs. Lewis for all that she had bought for her, and also for her board, which, with much difficulty, Linda insisted upon her taking, a considerable sum remained.





"You must take care of this for me, dear woman," Linda urged. "It will not be safe for me to take so much money with me; I shall lose it, or be robbed. Give me what you think will be sufficient for the present, and I can always write to you for more when I require it, and it will be a comfort to feel that I have still some tie, some claim upon you, my kindest friend."

Mrs. Lewis could not but feel gratified by this proof of the entire confidence this strange girl placed in her, and at the same time concurred in the prudence of the plan.





CHAPTER VII.



It was with sorrow and shrinking dread, that Linda saw one by one every excuse for protracting her stay hourly vanishing. She had really in her childish heart enjoyed the time she had spent in that humble abode, so kindly had she been treated by the widow and her little son.

The girl's high spirit had been softened and subdued by the truly maternal and tender bearing of her lowly friend. She had never experienced the love of a mother; ties of blood relationship had in but a solitary instance exercised their uniting bond of affection upon her nature. Kindness





and consideration she had received, but not the peculiar motherly tenderness of a heart like Mrs. Lewis's, full as it was with the very milk of human kindness, and who well understood by the bitter experience of sorrow how to feel for the sufferings of others. The novelty of the position was a most amusing excitement. To Linda's young fancy it was a delightfully romantic episode, particularly as there was nought of vulgarity to throw its disenchanting effect over the homeliness of the daily proceedings, nor the least straining for an assumption of aught but reality.

Mrs. Lewis possessed the innate refinement of a pure and holy mind, and her boy promised to be like her, of a very superior species of the class to which he belonged.

Mrs. Lewis had evidently seen better days, but there was no low-bred semblance of superiority in the humble woman who





performed the menial offices of her changed life without a murmur, or the slightest appearance of repugnance; considering no apology necessary for so doing. And Linda delighted in assisting-helping to make the beds and to arrange the rooms; and even, when the house was shut up for the night, going into the clean little kitchen to assist to prepare their small supper, and to eat it there; no food ever tasted before so delicious as that which she had lent her aid to cook; and then the chestnuts she and George were so fond of roasting before the fire, it was delightful fun; the fact was, she was quite as much a child at heart as George himself, in many ways, although, poor girl, with all, she possessed also the far less unmixed feelings of a woman.

And then it was inexhaustible amusement to peep behind the blind, and watch the novel scene, the ever busy passing panorama,





Mrs.



always enacting in Oxford Street. Lewis's shop was at the very extreme end of that locality, and Linda would smile when she contrasted her present resting place with those grand halls and aristocratic precincts in which her life had been hitherto passed.

"Oh!" she would ponder, "after all, people, not places, constitute our well-being. If this dear woman with her loving ways had been my mother, I really think I could have been very happy here, helping her, working hard for her and my little brother."

But again other visions crossed her mind -lighted saloons, splendour, gay company, faces, forms; and then, with a smothered groan, she would press her hands upon her eyes, as if to shut out from her mental vision, sights which it tortured her to behold.

"That dear, kind woman, that complete stranger, has done more for me in these few





days than I have gained ever since I was born. She has taught me so much. Had I but known and felt before, all that she has made me feel, poor Linda, you would not have been as you are now; but whatever may henceforth happen, I think I shall be a different girl in future. I shall carry away with me a treasure nothing can deprive me of—a changed heart, I really hope I now have; at least she has told me where to look for everything, and there in future I must go."

And Linda threw her arms round the kind woman's neck, who at that moment entered the room, and wept upon her bosom.

"My dear, there's no hurry; we shall be very sorry to lose you, that I can say with truth. I have not been unmindful of your wishes; and as you insist upon going to Paris-a plan I cannot like-I have just been to a person who I think may assist you."





"Yes, I must go, Mrs. Lewis," Linda hastily replied. "You have not said anything about me, I hope."





My dear, I never break my promises," the widow answered. "I have been to a person I used once to know very well. She is a Frenchwoman, but has lived many years in England—a milliner in the most fashionable line. She is, I have every reason to believe, a very respectable person. I went to her and said I had a customer, a young widow lady, who wished to go to Paris to be a teacher in a school; and asked if she could in any way assist her by recommending a boarding-house where she might stay in the first instance. I told her how very young you looked, and that you were not rich."

"And what did she say?" Linda eagerly inquired.

"She said she would consider, and let me know this evening."





And that evening a note arrived from Madame La Tour, saying she was going to send her forewoman to Paris on Monday to execute some business, and if the lady was ready to start, she could travel with her. Madame La Tour added that she would write to her correspondent, another celebrated modiste, who would, she was sure, assist to find the lady an abode.

This was an opportunity not to be lost, and the offer was accepted. It was already Saturday; how short the time now appeared to the period when Linda must leave her friends! We are very much inclined to measure time by circumstances more than by its real duration-by those leaden hours that sometimes pass so laggingly, and then again the changed feeling which renders every minute valuable as a thread of gold.

The girl clung with the affection of years,





instead of days, to those who had so pitied her in such an hour of need. Adversity draws hearts together in a far more rapid and closer manner than years of prosperous intercourse; and the terrifying idea that she was so soon to go forth alone, to drift down the troublous stream of life, with no one friendly hand held out to assist her, seemed every moment more and more alarming. She became nervous and frightened; many were the tears shed that night as she contemplated the awful prospect before her.

"Shall I," she once that night exclaimed, starting up in bed, "shall I tell her all, and ask her to advise me what to do? But

no, I cannot. I know what she would say, -that it was my bounden duty to write to them, and explain it all. Oh, no! I cannot -I cannot. Rather let me be buffeted about the world, exposed to every trouble





and hardship. And do I not deserve it all for my former folly-my vanity? Yes, dear Mrs. Lewis; and here I can acknowledge it-my sin-for is not vanity sin? And I thought-I thought he loved me. I-such a foolish, senseless girl!" And she hid her face in the bed-clothes, to suppress the sound of her sobs, fearing they might disturb her sleeping companions.

But with the morning's sunshine the dark clouds of her mind had in a measure departed. Oh, those happy careless days of early youth, when troubles roll off so speedily from the smooth surface of the heart, leaving so few traces behind! so different from one which has been long worn and furrowed by the constant droppings of cares and sorrows - the griefs of the aged, with whom life at best is but a







wintry day," and which can look in this

world for no after-growth of happiness.





But the young-their elastic spirits soon rise above the pressure of grief, close above the wound. Linda had so much to do, helping to pack, and to finish some of her lugubrious possessions, that she seemed for a while to forget her woes, and that evening again Mrs. Lewis's ears caught the sound of the melodious laugh issuing from the bedroom, where Linda and the boy were pursuing their favourite amusement of roasting chestnuts; and as she entered to tell them not to make quite so much noise, as many customers were coming in and out, and one lady had already said, “You seem to have a merry party upstairs, Mrs. Lewis," she saw the sorrowing widow with her arms flung over her head, and her mouth opened to its fullest extent, giving way to unrestrained merriment, elicited by some quaint remark of the innocent George, which had tickled her fancy.





"Oh, Mrs. Lewis," she said, when she could command her voice, "that boy will be the death of me. He has been asking such ridiculous questions."

"I only asked Mrs. Lindsey if she had any children," the boy deprecatingly explained. "There is nothing so extraordinary in that, is there, mother?" But Linda seemed to think there was, and went on laughing till Mrs. Lewis thought it best to put a stop to what generally ended in a painful reaction of feeling. She made some grave remark that immediately turned poor Linda's thoughts to the fast approaching Monday, and her mood soon changed from gaiety to dejection.

That evening, when George had cried himself to sleep, for he was heart-broken at the idea of losing his dear Mrs. Lindsey, Linda, seated on a footstool, with her head on Mrs. Lewis's knee, was talking





long and sadly, and listening to words from her humble friend which sank indelibly into her heart.

“Yes; you will see, dear Mrs. Lewis, that all my life I shall be a better girl. You have taught me what I never knew before; and ever since I was born I have been so wilful, so foolish, and ungrateful. It seems as if my heart had never been able to lean to any one as it has done towards you; yet I have received great kindness from many; and oh, it shocks me now to think how ungrateful I have been, And yet. and must now appear. And now the despondent, humble look suddenly disappeared; it changed to one of fierceness, as she continued: "Mrs. Lewis! still, though I may have been everything that is unamiable and foolish, I have been wickedly treated. Yes, most wickedly." And the girl now clenched her hands, and





set her teeth, whilst glances of scorn, nay, even hatred, flashed from her eyes.





Oh, Mrs. Lewis, when I think of some things, I feel such rage and hatred rising in

my heart, that I could play the part of a demon; so do not raise the dreadful spirits before me by asking any questions. Let me endeavour, if possible, to forget the past, and only look onwards -never casting a thought back upon what has been."

"But, dear, one thing I must say, and I entreat you to turn it, with many others that we have talked over, in your mind when you have left me. Remember, it is our bounden duty to forgive."

"Forgive!" was the impetuous rejoinder; and the wrathful look which shot from those young eyes shocked and saddened the good



woman.



"Poor child!" she thought; "all this





tells of a heart which requires much chastening to subdue its pride."

Mrs. Lewis was much more communicative to her young friend. She told her without reserve the story of her life—one of no eventful interest until the very few last years, when sorrow had ruffled its calm, happy, uneventful surface.

Her husband had been in a most thriving business, but before his death was a ruined, heart-broken man. The old story had been the cause of this disaster. He had weakly taken upon himself the responsibility of a friend's liabilities-one whom he had trusted as a brother, and utter destruction was the consequence.

They had lived in a pretty house, surrounded by a garden, within a mile or two of London, their two children growing up in health and happiness-all this was utterly swept away. The father, a most excellent





man, his only fault his being too yielding in his nature, perhaps less strong-minded than his enduring wife, never recovered the shock of the utter beggary in which he had involved his wife and children—a brain fever speedily brought him to the grave. In the state of destitution into which the family were plunged, Lucy, the daughter, then nearly eighteen years old, endeavoured to relieve her mother of the burden of her maintenance, by gaining her own livelihood. She entered a family as attendant upon some little girls, performing also the duties of nursery governess to them.

But, alas! the widow's cup of grief was not yet half filled. The scarlet fever was raging in the neighbourhood, and in the house where Lucy resided it soon made its spectral appearance, and she became one of its first victims.

"Before I was aware of the nature of 



the complaint, I had hastened to see my child, and by that means conveyed the infection to George." Mrs. Lewis continued, when she had controlled her emotion sufficiently to speak, "Both my children were soon at the point of death; but one was mercifully spared to me, although George has never been the same in health since that fearful disease; but, thank God that he has been left, although my Lucy God thought in his wisdom to remove from her poor doting mother."

"Oh! Mrs. Lewis, dear, dear Mrs. Lewis," cried Linda, now weeping bitterly, "and you have gone through all this trouble, and can speak of it thus calmly?"

"My dear, how can I do otherwise, when it was God's will that I should have thus suffered? At first my hard heart rebelled, and had it not been for my boy, despair might well nigh have destroyed me, for my





Lucy had ever been my best beloved, my pride and joy; too much so, no doubt, for now I can see that I made her an idol. "However," the mother continued, "I had a work to do. George lingered on, and there was only me to nurse him; so strength was vouchsafed, and sweet comfort has since been sent to my torn heart in that dear child."







Well, to shorten my sad story, I will just add that my friends were all most kind. Even our creditors, for the most part, respected and were sorry for my dear husband; and there were not a few amongst them who came forward in the most considerate manner, returning many things necessary to our immediate comfort, which my husband, as a bankrupt, had most scrupulously given up.







"My own relations too were nobly generous, and by their kindness I have been esta





blished in this shop, and for the last year have carried on this little business with tolerable success. And now, my dear, I have told you all; don't grieve for me,” the widow added, as Linda clung to her, sobbing; "for in the midst of all this misery I have found comfort and cause for much thankfulness."

The girl's really affectionate heart was deeply touched. No lesson could have been so effectual in its teaching as this tale of real woe-no payment so precious to the excellent woman as the words Linda at length faltered forth,

"Mrs. Lewis, I thank you for telling me all this; I shall never forget it. Oh, how ashamed I feel of my paltry trials, after hearing of your sorrows; but it will be good for me, dear woman! Yes, very good for me. I hope what I have heard will teach me also patience, submission;





and now I know that there is, as you say, but one refuge in trouble, and that must indeed be a sure one, or how could you so cheerfully have borne such a load of grief? Yes, dear Mrs. Lewis, I will think of your meek face in my hours of bitterness, and my impatient heart will grow calm."

"Not of me, my child," the widow earnestly exclaimed, "not of me, but of Him who is the Father of the fatherless and of the widow."

"Yes, I will; I promise you I will," repeated Linda, sinking upon her knees, and hiding her face on the widow's lap; "and," she added, "I hope we may live to meet again, that you may see that I have followed your precepts. Oh, Mrs. Lewis, if I could only have you always with me, and be to you a daughter in the room of poor Lucy. Alas! alas! this cannot be here in England."





It was now late, and Mrs. Lewis was obliged to hurry her guest to bed; but long after she was asleep the widow still watched. With what a heart-ache she looked upon that childish face, so brightly flushed from the agitation of the past hours!

"What a sweet face it is!" she sighed, really scarcely looking older than Georgie, lying there, with only that small head and face appearing. What it can all be, this mysterious history of hers I have no idea-something very wrong somewhere, I fear; but I can't think evil of the poor child-wilful, headstrong, and imprudent, no doubt she has been, but not wicked. Well, it cannot be helped, whatever it is; I must go through with it now. I may have been unwise, imprudent, but after all I have only done my duty as a Christian woman; and I feel sure, come what may, I shall never repent of it-indeed I would





do more if I could for her, poor young creature! and my heart, which is so dreary, will miss that face most painfully. And, oh, dear me, to think of the like of her alone upon the wide world!" Mrs. Lewis was miserable at this idea, and she would have made any sacrifice to have further befriended the desolate Linda, but could do no more than pray most fervently for her welfare.

Very little sleep visited the widow's eyes that night, and it was with a load at her heart that she commenced the business of another day.

The frost and snow had departed, and were succeeded by a damp, heavy atmosphere. Linda was not to start till night, and it was arranged that she should meet Madame La Tour's forewoman at the place of departure. Mrs. Lewis and George were to accompany her to see the last of their





young friend, and in order that the former might place her under the protection of the Frenchwoman, Mamselle Sophie.

It was only a very short time before they departed that Mrs. Lewis could prevail upon Linda to change her dress and put on her sombre suit of weeds.

A singular effect they certainly produced upon the appearance of this childishlooking creature, and tears were in the kind woman's eyes as she looked at her when thoroughly equipped. But there was no answering emotion in those of the young widow-rather an indignant flush—and a scornful look her eyes emitted.

"You would not know me for the same person?" she then rather anxiously demanded.

"Scarcely, indeed!" was the answer, and then Mrs. Lewis went on earnestly to recommend that she would take care of her





new dress, and put on the dressing-gown she would find in the carpet-bag before she lay down in the berth. "Pray remember the new crape," was one of her careful admonitions," and be sure that you hang up your bonnet."

Poor Linda was now very miserable and nervous, and Georgie overwhelmed with grief. The boy loved the young lady so dearly, her stay with them had been such happiness, that the idea of losing her was quite dreadful.

"Indeed, dear Georgie, you must write to me, and you must always tell me how your

dear mother looks, and how she is; never mind spelling or grammar; all I shall care about is to hear from you. Oh, Georgie, what a happy boy you are, always to be with such a mother!"

Georgie hung about her as she sat listlessly allowing Mrs. Lewis to perform every





part of the packing and preparations for her departure; and at length, with a very heavy heart, on the darkest and gloomiest of November nights, Linda quitted the humble refuge which had proved a haven of peace to her.





CHAPTER VIII.



THE parting was over, and a sad one it was. All who have ever embarked on board a steamer from the London Wharf, can enter into Linda's bewilderment, which almost absorbed every other feeling, whilst being jostled by the watermen, all struggling for her luggage, preparatory to stepping into the boat which was to convey her and her companion to the vessel.

Dark looked the river, lights gleaming on its troubled waters from the numerous buildings around; the cold wind blowing on the girl's face, rain dropping upon her head.

She had not till now in any way realised





her position, and as, with a start of dismay, she found herself at length on board the packet, a feeling of blank desolation rushed to her heart. Her first impotent impulse was to spring forward with a wild resolve to return to the widow and her son, who, she felt sure, were still watching the departure of the vessel.

"But oh, it is too late!" she exclaimed.

The ship was indeed already in motion, and she had no alternative but to wring her hands and sob in hopeless distress, as her eyes fixed themselves in the direction where she fancied might still be standing the only two on earth who, in her present morbid state of mind, she imagined felt any interest in her.

The Frenchwoman now approached and spoke soothingly to her, but little did Linda heed her words, or the proposal that she should accompany her into the saloon.





"Madame," the milliner said in French, "will be wet through; we had better go down and secure our berths, for we shall have a terrible night."

And Linda passively allowed herself to be conducted to the saloon, and once there she threw herself helplessly on a seat, leaving Mamselle Sophie to make what arrangements she pleased about her sleeping accommodation.

It had been settled that Linda was to accompany Madame La Tour's forewoman, in the first instance, to her friend and business correspondent, a first-rate milliner, Madame Le Roi, whose Magasin de Modes was situated in one of the most distinguished localities of Paris. She had been deputed to find some establishment of respectability, in which the young lady could reside until she had definitively arranged her plans.

As there she sat, all the excitement of the





last week subsiding into terror, as she felt, for the first time, the reality of her lonely position, the poor girl was indeed a pitiable object; all her past existence, her impetuous, self-willed conduct rising up in judgment to condemn her, filling her heart with affright and repentant sorrow.

"What will become of me?" she almost suddenly exclaimed.

In her total absorption, her despairing feelings, she had thrown her veil back, and sat with her hands clasped, her eyes, from which tears fell fast, raised piteously, as if invoking help from above. But we fear the attitude was more indicative of devotion than her thoughts really were at that mo



ment.



She cared not who saw her, in the impatience of her present feelings, or what might be the consequences. She was forgetful of Mrs. Lewis's words of counsel, of





all her own promises of seeking aid from whence alone it could be derived. Again, she was the miserable girl sorrowing impotently without hope.

The saloon was full of people, but she saw them not; little heeded that many looked upon her with surprise, some with compassion; her widow's weeds, so strange a contrast to that small childish face, her deep distress! it was so unusual, and





doubly affecting to witness in one so young.

As the night advanced the sea roughened, large waves beat against the vessel's sides, and soon the assembled party began to disperse; one by one might be seen a fresh victim reeling helplessly, supported by the steward or stewardess into the sleeping cabin, a prey to that demon of sickness, whose power is resistless; but Linda felt it not; perhaps the counter-irritation of her mind saved her from bodily suffering. The





motion of the packet, however, became every moment more violent. She could with difficulty keep her seat, but still resisted the repeated advice of the stewardess that she should take possession of her berth. She dreaded the lights, the sounds, and the atmosphere of the sleeping cabin, crowded as it must be with so many sufferers. Through the gloom of the saloon, lighted so dimly by the lamp swaying to and fro, she had scarcely perceived that she was not alone, but that a pair of eyes were attentively watching her with the deepest interest. She had removed her heavy bonnet, so that the face was no longer hidden, and the young man who looked upon it, felt such pity for the poor young sorrowing one, whose eyes were so red with weeping, and with such a piteous expression on her countenance, that gladly would he have done any thing possible to serve her.





He longed to say something, to offer his services, for he had a good, kind, English heart. Any one in distress commanded his sympathy; but in one so very young he could not bear to see it; and he ventured by degrees to approach nearer to where she sat, and then made some casual remark upon the stormy state of the weather.

Linda started; what was she to do?and she had taken off her bonnet.

"However," despairingly she thought, "I care not what becomes of me."

She just answered at first in monosyllables, but the gentleman persisted, and very soon she felt a degree of inexpressible comfort whilst listening to his soothing tone of voice.

There is certainly a magic influence in the sound of a voice; so much does it at once convey an impression of the identity, the character, the station of the speaker.





No wonder, then, that the blind so generally read aright characteristics by the mere intonation of those with whom they converse; every inflexion of their voices proving as sure an index to their darkened vision, as the fluctuations of the countenance afford to those who are able to watch its variations.

Linda felt imperceptibly re-assured; a creature of impulse,-one moment in the depths of despair, the next, her spirits rebounding in a surprising manner, forgetting for a while aught but the impression of the actual present-she was soon chatting freely to this perfect stranger.

Nothing conducts an acquaintance so speedily to a climax as the saloon of a packet in a tremendous sea, particularly if we are not quite laid low by sickness; there are so many little events and contretemps which bring one in familiar contact,





destroying at once all attempts at formality



or ceremony.



Soon the heaving and lurching of the vessel rendered Linda's position critical; she was obliged to accept the gentleman's arm to save her from falling from the insecure situation in which she was placed; but once in comparative security she laughed merrily, and seemed rather to enjoy what once she would have termed the fun of the whole business.

How strangely did the laugh sound to the young man, who had so few minutes. before watched such despairing anguish in the face of the infantine-looking widow! But this only made him pity her the more.

In the interval of the temporary comparative quiet they talked together, and Linda was soon telling him that she had always been an excellent sailor, and was well accustomed to the sea; had yachted a great





deal from Torquay, had been out in very rough weather, and had never yet suffered from sea-sickness.

The next question was, where she had been, and Linda told of Cherbourg, the Channel Islands, Scotland, &c., &c., and she was asked what was the name of the yacht ?

Then a dead silence ensued-the charm was broken. Linda shrank back, and spoke not afterwards; and the stewardess appearing, and again advising her most strongly to go to her berth, saying that the storm was increasing, and soon she would not be able to remain where she was in safety, she at length consented to go to the ladies' cabin.

With the utmost difficulty, assisted by the stewardess, she at length, remembering Mrs. Lewis's orders, contrived to take off her dress and put on a dressing-gown, and





at last found herself in a berth, repenting most sorely that she had left the saloon; for the state of the passengers assembled there, was anything but agreeable to the senses; every one suffering more or less from the tortures of that most incurable of horrors, the almost certain accompaniment to a stormy passage across the channel.

The lady in the next berth to Linda's seemed to be in a worse plight than all the others.

The stewardess, torn to pieces by the necessities of the various passengers, was unable to give her the attention she so evidently required, and her exclamations and cries for assistance were piteous in the extreme.

"Oh, why did I attempt this horrid long passage?" she would exclaim. "I must die-I cannot survive this torture!







Stewardess, for mercy's sake come to me, or I must expire."

But the stewardess could not move; she was at that moment held tight in the grasp of another sufferer, who would not allow her to leave her side.

Linda really began to be alarmed, as well as very sorry for the poor woman.

up in her berth and said



She sat



"Can I do anything for you, ma'am?" "Oh, I am dying! I am dying!" was "and no one will come



the only answer,

near me."



Linda, with the utmost difficulty, contrived to get out of the berth. Holding tight by the side, with one hand she contrived to support herself, whilst with the other she administered to the suffering woman; bathing her face plenteously with eau de Cologne, speaking words of comfort and encouragement, and serving her





so kindly and effectually, that soon, with the selfishness of suffering, she became so necessary that, whenever the weary girl endeavoured to return to her berth, she was implored so earnestly to remain that she had not the heart to refuse. But at length it occurred to Linda that she had heard of a specific which, after sea-sickness had done its worst, produced a wonderful effect in procuring rest.

She called the stewardess; and desired her to bring a large glass of mulled port wine, well spiced.

After some demur, and promises of good payment, this was obtained, and Linda, with some difficulty, insisted upon her patient swallowing almost a tumblerful of this cordial. The lady had been well nigh exhausted by so many hours of incessant sickness, therefore the potent nature of the draught, to Linda's relief, speedily took





effect-her charge soon fell into a profound slumber; and the storm having in a great measure subsided, the motion of the packet was now comparatively easy. Linda gladly crept into her berth, and in a moment was also fast asleep, and so remained for two hours, when she awoke, finding that they had reached Boulogne, and that the wretched inmates of the berths had been aroused from the short oblivion they might have enjoyed of their night of misery.

She started up, longing to get out of this chamber of horrors; and demanding of the stewardess where she could find washing materials, was soon endeavouring to refresh herself by as much ablution as the scanty means of a packet would afford.

She had peeped into her patient's berth, and was glad to see her still asleep, and felt rather proud of her successful doctoring, which had proved so effectual.





But the lady's eyes were only closed. She had been awake some time, still feeling the exhausting effects of her dreadful night, and thinking, with much gratitude, of the kind girl who had done so much for her alleviation. No one was as yet astir but Linda; and the lady, turning on her side, looked forth, and first saw her kind young nurse devoutly kneel down, and leaning her face upon her hands, perform her morning devotions. Then she watched her through the different stages of her toilette,-how at length she combed out and coiled her long hair round the back of her small head, and then-no, it could not be possible,—and the lady raised herself upon her elbow to gain a better view, as she saw this childlike-looking creature place upon that little head a widow's cap, and proceed to equip herself in the complete garb of a bereaved wife.





Linda was on the point of leaving the cabin, panting to breathe the fresh air on deck, when, chancing to look round her, she saw the lady, with her eyes open, fixed upon her. She immediately went up to the berth, inquiring kindly how she felt.

Then followed the most lady-like expressions of gratitude for the services she had rendered. A very different individual was the calm, collected, dignified person who now addressed her, to the abject, petulant woman who, so short a time ago, would have sold her birthright for a moment's reprieve from the sufferings under which she groaned; from the degrading, levelling effect of seasickness, that respecter of no one person, high or low, rich or poor, equally regardless of the queen as of the subject—which laughs to scorn every nostrum human skill has ever devised, bringing the victims of





its despotic sway powerless under its complete dominion. Yes, there is certainly one thing omnipotent even here below.

Linda flew up the companion stairs upon deck. How delicious was the open air after the night spent in that dreadful cabin below! She leant over the side of the vessel, gazing upon the town of Boulogne; but her thoughts were wandering far and wide, the moment's pleasurable sensation soon giving place to the anxious cares which pressed upon her heart.

She was roused from her reverie by a voice behind her, saying

"I am glad to see that you have recovered the horrors of the night you so much dreaded."

It was her acquaintance of the previous evening, and Linda felt glad again to behold





that agreeable countenance, a passport to her favour quite irresistible.

They chatted freely until summoned to breakfast. When seated at the well-filled table, she hurriedly cast her eyes over the assembled party; but seemingly satisfied with the scrutiny, she raised her veil and commenced the meal, to which she was assiduously assisted by her new acquain

She observed, however, that the lady who sat opposite gazed fixedly upon



her.



Could it be possible? Was that imposinglooking person, so strong-minded in the expression of her countenance, the impatient, fractious, impotent invalid, giving way to every ejaculation of complaint, whom she had nursed during the night?

She was a tall, stately personage, between forty and fifty-a cold, rather stern expression the chief characteristic of her





countenance, her eyes hawk-like, so keen and piercing they appeared; but when she smiled, a look of benevolence seemed, like a sunbeam on a winter's day, to lighten its frigidity.

The lady evidently was much interested by the appearance of the youthful widow, and Linda caught her eyes repeatedly, as she sat before her, apparently endeavouring to penetrate into her inmost thoughts.

Breakfast was soon over, and the confusion of landing commenced. Again Linda's spirits, which had with their usual elasticity risen for a space, sank again. Her resting time was passed-the future, with all its difficulties, was again staring her in the face, and the ready tears began to gather in her eyes.

The Frenchwoman began to bustle about, advising her to make her preparations; and it was with a listless, miserable





air that Linda followed her into the sleeping cabin to look after her carpet-bag.

"Are you going to Paris, Madam ?" was asked in a clear, decided voice by the lady whom she encountered, also on the same errand; "for if so, perhaps I may have the pleasure of travelling with you in the same carriage?"

Linda eagerly expressed her acquiescence, and felt a sensation of relief in feeling that, during the journey at least, she would be under the protection of one who appeared so unmistakably respectable.

From that moment she kept close to her new acquaintance, evidently evincing such comfort in the proximity—even viewing with indifference the offered services of the handsome young man-that the lady, whose perception was acute to a degree, at once perceived it, and felt not only gratified, but formed at once a favourable estimate of





Linda, who, now that she had found a support in one of her own class and sex, seemed to regard with perfect indifference the attentions of the young man who hovered about her, perceptibly much attracted by the interesting young widow. He was at the carriage window making his adieux when they departed, and might have been seen standing on the platform watching the train as long as it was visible; and then with a sigh walking away, thinking, "Poor girl, I wonder who she is? What can be her history? I wish I had not met her; that piteous face of hers last night will trouble me for many a day!"

And so it sometimes happens during our journey through life: we are struck by an expression in a face, by some peculiar fascination in the bearing of a stranger casually seen, and perhaps never again en





countered, which, like the effects of some mysterious dream, leaves an extraordinary impression on the mind, and clings pertinaciously to our recollections.





CHAPTER IX.



LINDA'S LETTER TO MRS. LEWIS.



"December, Rue



à Paris.



"My dear, kind Friend,

"I have only time to write most hurriedly; but you will, I know, be glad to hear that the poor girl whom you have so compassionately assisted in her hour of need is for the present in safe keeping."

Then followed the account of the passage to Boulogne, and the manner in which her acquaintance commenced with the lady whose guest Linda now was.

"During our journey to Paris my companion questioned me as to my arrange





ments when we should have arrived there. that I expected

I told her what they were;

Madame le Roi would have secured some present asylum for me until I had attained the object which had induced me to leave England; and I informed her of my earnest desire to obtain a situation in a school, where I might make myself useful in teaching music. Mrs. Grandison, for that is her name, was silent for some time after I had spoken, and then she said, 'You, of course, are supplied with credentials to assist you in this object?'

"No, indeed, I don't possess a single reference. Are they really necessary?' I added, in blank dismay.




Absolutely,' was the laconic reply.

'Then,' I exclaimed, losing all presence of mind, I am indeed an unfortunate creature, and what is to become of me God only knows!' and I covered my face





and cried bitterly. Mrs. Grandison was silent; when she spoke again it was in a firm though not unkind tone of voice.

"You could not expect, young lady, that any right-thinking person would receive into their house a stranger, without a friend to vouch for her respectability; it would be, indeed, the height of imprudence, particularly when that stranger must necessarily associate intimately with the young people committed to her charge. For instance, myself,-I educate under my roof some pupils,―at this very moment I am in want of a resident teacher of music, but ——

"I interrupted her by exclaiming, dreadfully excited, 'Oh, madam, dear madam, only take me; try me; I'm a poor forlorn girl, but there is nothing really wrong or disreputable in my character; I have married, and my husband has gone from me





for ever, and my friends will never forgive, or look upon me as they have done. I again implore you to try me; I do not want you to pay me until you have proved me thoroughly; let me work for you without any salary for three months, then, if you find me worthy, give me a pittance, just sufficient to buy what is necessary for this dress, which will henceforth be my constant livery,' and I pointed to my widow's garb.

"Mrs. Grandison still shook her head doubtingly. I was sitting on the seat opposite to her, my eyes fixed with the intensity of hope and fear upon her severe countenance. How earnestly I begged and prayed, implored her in the name of mercy to have pity upon me, no pen can describe!

"At any rate,' after some hesitation, she said, evidently softened by my tears and vehement importunities, 'I shall be glad if you will go home with me now, and stay a





week, and in that time something may be



done for you.'



"You may imagine my rapturous gratitude. Mrs. Grandison looked amazed at my impetuous conduct, she, so calm and cold! though, as I flung my arms round her neck, and with sobs and tears kissed her over and over again, blessing and thanking her for her goodness, I thought I saw her eyes fill with tears, and certainly her voice sounded much more gentle when she bid me compose myself. Oh! Mrs. Lewis, have not goodness and mercy followed my footsteps ever since I have needed them so greatly?' "But your maid,' she said, 'I fear I cannot consent to receive her also.'

"I soon explained to her who Mam'selle Sophie was; and just then we were about to enter Paris, and all was again confusion. I told the Frenchwoman, who had travelled in a second-class carriage, my change of





plans; and, according to Mrs. Grandison's directions, gave her my address; and after everything was arranged, and our luggage left to the charge of a respectable-looking man-servant, whom we found at the station, we entered a fiacre and drove to Mrs. Grandison's abode.

"The house stood within gates, at which there was a lodge for the concierge or porter. It seemed large and gloomy as we entered at that dusky time of the day, before the lamps were lighted; but the room into which we were ushered was bright with the radiance of a large wood fire.

"Wait here and warm yourself, whilst I go and make preparations about your sleeping apartment,' Mrs. Grandison said; 'but, by the by, what is your name? I must know that at least.'

"I told her it was Mrs. Lindsay, and she departed.





"And then, dear Mrs. Lewis, I thought of you, and on my knees I thanked God for this present deliverance, and implored His assistance to help me on in the course into which my fate had drawn me; and as I rose on Mrs. Grandison's entrance, I felt so strengthened, such a feeling of relief and happiness filling my heart, that I again rushed into the arms of that tall, statelylooking woman-I daresay she thought with childish, foolish vehemence-thanking her for her kindness.

"Now I will take you to your apartment,' she said, when she could extricate herself from my embraces; 'you will find it quite prepared, for I had expected to have brought back a young lady, and the room you will occupy was made ready for



her reception.'



"I followed her upstairs, and through a long passage, until we arrived at a door,





and entered a large room, which, but for the bed in a recess, did not look like a sleeping apartment. It appeared to me more resembling a study, the large library table being covered with books and writing materials, while leading out of it were two smaller chambers, one which was appropriated by Mrs. Grandison to the business of the toilette, the other fitted up as a sleeping room, on a very small scale, with its French bed and furniture to match.

"This little room,' Mrs. Grandison remarked, 'I keep in general for a new pupil; I think it more agreeable for a stranger, before she becomes acquainted with her companions, to be alone. Will you like Weston to assist you in opening your trunk? Dinner will be ready in an hour.'

"I thanked her, but declined the offer; my carpet-bag contained all that I required





dear woman,



for the present, and in it, you, had deposited in the little carton, my cap. I smoothed my hair and put it on, took out the contents of the bag, and when these little arrangements were over, had still time to look around at my tiny domicile and write these hurried lines to you. Such a pretty little room it is, furnished as only French taste can furnish; and then I looked out of the window, and saw that a large garden belonged to the house. 'Oh! that be allowed to stay here!' I thought; 'it is just the place to suit me, I am sure; and Mrs. Grandison, though she does look so severe, and is so stately, what a ladylike woman she is! and under all that cold exterior I am sure she has a warm heart, I know I could serve her well.' Oh, Mrs. Lewis, how my heart smites me while thoughts of the past rush through my mind!—my wilfulness towards those who



I



may





have been so good to me ever since I was born, and who must now think me a regular monster of ingratitude, must feel that so much kindness and affection, so freely bestowed, have been utterly thrown away. The feelings of my heart must have been in a state of total apathy, for from what I now experience, they must have been always there; but bound fast by pride and folly, never did I realize their natural workings until suddenly they seemed to burst forth when I was with you, dear, dear Mrs. Lewis! Those words you bid me utter, 'God be merciful to me a sinner,' and which, after a hard struggle with my rebellious nature, I have been able to repeat with sincerity, seemed to break open the fast-closed gates of my cold, hard heart, and oh, what a flood of torturing thoughts did then enter into my benighted soul! remembrances which had nearly over





whelmed me with sorrow-and to think how kind they were, the friends of my childhood and youth, and I so totally dead to their influence, making no return but coldness, disrespect; no answering love. My tears are choking me, and blotting my paper; a bell rings, it must be dinner; in the greatest haste I must finish this confused scrawl. Tender love to dear Georgie and yourself, dearest Mrs. Lewis.

shall hear again in a day or two, from "Your grateful and affectionate



You



"ROSA."



P.S. "The maid tells me this will not be

too late for the post."





CHAPTER X.



It was with very red eyes that Linda found herself in the presence of Mrs. Grandison, who, having divested herself of her travelling costume, stood before her, more frigidly stately than ever, in her full-skirted, handsome silk dress and imposing-looking cap. She stiffly made an inclination, to express that her guest should walk first into the dining-room, and treated Linda with the grave courtesy due to a stranger during the meal, and when it was concluded they retired in the same order into the room into which they had first been ushered.

"My pupils are gone home for their





Christmas vacation," she said, when they were seated. "I have no company to welcome you, Mrs. Lindsay."

Linda soon began to feel oppressed by the weight of the atmosphere of frigidity which Mrs. Grandison's present manner cast around her. What was she to do during this long evening? she thought, whilst casting her eyes despairingly around.

Mrs. Grandison immediately began to examine the direction of a number of letters placed upon a small table, on which stood a lamp by the side of a fauteuil. Linda, seated opposite, had nothing else to do but to watch the movements and countenance of her hostess. She saw her look abstractedly at the directions of several letters, but at last she came to one which had been hidden under the others, all of which she now hastily cast on one side, and then, with an impatience very unlike her usual collected





demeanour, hurriedly opened it, and was soon deep in its contents.

Linda thought it must be a foreign letter from the appearance of the paper. What a change did its contents produce upon the countenance of that stern woman! Her face became paler, but a softness came over its expression, quite transforming its character; tender smiles ever and anon played around her mouth, and then again some tears were wiped away; and when the last words seemed to have been read, the first sheet was taken up again and every word reperused. And even when it was at last reluctantly put down, and Mrs. Grandison took up the other letters to examine abstractedly their contents, the mind certainly was not with the task; for often were they again thrown aside, and again the other taken up, and some passages dwelt upon, Linda could easily perceive,





with such fondness. Once she saw her press the lines with fervour to her lips, and they moved as if ejaculating a name! Could that be the stony-looking woman who, like a clothed statue, had just done the honours of her table?

Linda's very expressive eyes were fixed on Mrs. Grandison's face whilst these ideas were passing through her mind, and suddenly the lady, who, whilst reading her letter had totally forgotten even the existence of her guest, suddenly looked up and perceived that she was watched. Her face flushed, and evidently a displeased expression overspread it; but with cold civility she said, with her usual dignified manner,

"I suppose you have not unpacked your work-box, Mrs. Lindsay; it must be irksome to you, I should imagine, doing nothing; you will find some books and prints upon that table."





"And Linda, feeling like a detected criminal, immediately rose to obey her orders, looked over the prints, and finally

settled herself with a book.

Mrs. Grandison spoke.



After a time



"Have you selected a book you like?"



she politely said.



"Yes, I am very fond of Alfieri."

"Do you speak Italian?" was asked with some interest.





Quite as fluently as English, much better than French. I never cared for that language; German, even, I like better. Italian is my mother tongue."

There was a long pause. Mrs. Grandison, Linda could perceive, although now she only very stealthily turned her eyes towards her, was still absorbed by her letter; but at length again she spoke.

"You must be tired to-night, Mrs. Lind





sey, I should imagine, or I would ask you to give me a little music."

"Not at all tired, I can assure you," Linda exclaimed, starting up with alacrity; "I shall be too happy to play or sing."

"But you have not, I daresay, unpacked your music?" Mrs. Grandison said, as she proceeded to ring the bell for lights for the pianoforte.

However, saying she should not require any to-night, indeed, had brought no music with her, and would prefer not having lights, Linda gladly sat down to the occupation which almost she loved the most; and choosing a song which she thought, in Mrs. Grandison's present mood, would be most calculated gently to mingle with the feelings of tenderness drawn forth by that foreign letter, Linda sang an Italian canzonette, of such pathetic pathos, in a voice of such exquisite plaintive melody,





that soon the heart



which had already heaved high with that sweetest and tenderest, though saddest of emotions, caused by the words (though they were but written ones) from one beloved in a far distant land, ceased almost in its beatings, whilst in rapt attention she listened to the strains.

Linda noted the effect she was producing. She felt a sort of exultation at the idea of the power she possessed of melting the soul; not that she meant to be cruel, far from it, for with all her faults, the girl possessed a compassionate heart, but with a sort of instinctive conviction that she knew a song which would particularly touch the heart of her listener, and with an impulse of curiosity to discover the extent of her power in exciting her feelings (after having finished the Italian arietta she had before commenced), she at once broke forth into that plaintive air "the Exile's Home":





"Where, tell us where, for hearts in sorrow pining,

Where dwells the calm that shall our toil allay?

Tell us, ye stars, above in glory shining,

Where lies the shore that yet shall all repay?

Oh there, only there!



"Shades of the past, whose pilgrim cares are over,

Say ye in dreams who round us kindly come;

Ye from the skies, that here in pity hover,

Where is the wanderer's home-the exile's rest?

Oh there, there!"





Every word fell with liquid clearness upon Mrs. Grandison's listening ear, and soon Linda was startled and terrified when she discovered what passionate emotions her spell had conjured up. A sudden vibration on some of the most sensitive chords of her heart seemed to run through the whole frame of the stern-looking woman, and in a moment to open the flood-gates of her tears. Uncontrollable was the emotion which now shook the whole frame of one apparently so strong-minded. She could





not suppress her sobs, which sounded so far more painful than the ordinary emotion of women, proceeding from one who seemed so little given to such tender weakness.

Linda, as usual the creature of impulse, in a moment was on her knees before Mrs. Grandison, imploring her forgiveness for being the cause of her emotion.

"I ought not to have sung that song; I know it was wrong of me; it is so sad, it always makes me feel inclined to weep when I sing it. But yet, dear Madam," Linda continued, "the words must be so comforting to an exile. Yes, I feel its influence; I, a poor, miserable, forlorn exile, now know, that 'There, only There,' can there be rest for me."

And Linda buried her face on Mrs. Grandison's lap, and wept for her own woes.

No words were spoken for some time, but much was accomplished during that brief space; and it was a true and honest, though





a rash, wild young heart you pressed to yours, Mrs. Grandison, and one which kindness would melt and mould to your will. You may trust her now; though faulty and impetuous, she will be true to you.

The value of adversity depends upon the spirit of the person upon whom it falls. Fire will inflame straw, soften iron, or harden clay; its effects are determined by the object with which it comes in contact. There are some spirits with which it hastens the consummation of perpetual decay, and there are others in which it developes the hidden good qualities of the mind.

Linda's previous existence had been one of prosperity, but not one of love. It was a cold atmosphere which she had ever breathed, and this impetuous nature longed for something more; her energetic soul would fain be doing, not merely existing; she had ever fretted and chafed at her life





of vacuity;—no one to love her, as she fain would be loved; nothing to do but to saunter through life a nonentity.

Adversity had at once done its transforming work upon her very peculiar temperament. Her very entrance into what ought to be termed life had become to her a snare, a peril. She had rushed into it with a heart as buoyant as a fresh morning to the skylark, but for every step she had taken in that path she had now something to mourn, to deplore. But sorrow had been good for Linda. They were now seated side by side, the lady and the girl on the sofa- Mrs. Grandison talking long and in a gentle voice. She was uninterrupted by her listener, who sat drinking in every word. she spoke, and then, when the lady ceased to speak, she murmured: "All, all shall be done as you wish; you will not repent, dear Madam, that you have befriended me;" and she erected her head with a degree of





dignity, a new phase in her deportment. "I hope, with all my faults, I possess an honourable heart; and believe me when I say, though my present appearance may, under such mysterious circumstances, belie my words, that I am no low-born adventurer, I shall never at least, come what may, be a disgrace to you; and oh, Madam, how can I sufficiently express my overwhelming gratitude?" she added, melting into tears of tenderness.

Music, which she was called upon every night to perform, was evidently the greatest source of delight to Mrs. Grandison, who soon discovered how soignée the young girl's education had been; and then her manners and language, how perfectly ladylike and well-bred they were!

"Yes, she is exactly what I want," was the reiterated exclamation. "But this silence, this mystery! I know not how to decide."





CHAPTER XI.



BUT few days more and the pupils were to arrive.

Mrs. Grandison became grave and abstracted, and Linda's heart began to sink.

"I shall have to go," she would exclaim when she was alone in her little room. "Yes, I see plainly Mrs. Grandison will not keep me any longer without some explanation; but I cannot, I cannot tell her." And it was with very red eyes the poor girl again encountered Mrs. Grandison; and so passed the three next days, nothing having transpired upon that subject.

She little guessed what a reciprocal feeling





was struggling in the heart of her formidable-looking hostess.

At length the crisis came. They had finished breakfast, which had been a silent meal, both evidently engrossed by troubled thoughts. With a start Linda heard herself addressed:

"Mrs. Lindsey, the time has arrived when we must come to some understanding or part. Your own good sense will point out to you how impossible it will be for me to retain you under my roof, as the companion to my twenty pupils, unless I know something of your previous history."

Mrs. Grandison paused, but no answer did she receive. Linda sat speechless, her hands pressed tightly together, looking the pale image of despair.

At last she rose, and said in a voice, almost inaudible from choking sobs she in vain endeavoured to restrain,





"Yes, Mrs. Grandison, I know that I must go, for I cannot, must not, tell you who I am; you have been kind, most kind, and I shall be always grateful for what you have already done. You are quite right; you could not let me stay, still doubting me; though God is my witness when I declare that you have not been sheltering one of whom you need be ashamed. I have been, no doubt, a very foolish girl, but not a disgraceful one. I can swear solemnly that I was lawfully married, but," and she clasped her hands in agony, "my husband is gone from me for ever; and as for my friends, I never will return to them. This I can solemnly declare; parents, I have none."

And thus having spoken, Linda rushed from the room, and regained her sleeping apartment in a state of excitement and agony truly pitiable.





"Oh, Mrs. Lewis, Mrs. Lewis!" she exclaimed, "you are the only one who really compassionated my forlorn condition; you did not turn from me, though I told you as little as I have done Mrs. Grandison. Yes, I must go, and that immediately," and with her usual impetuosity Linda dragged forth her trunk, and began hastily to deposit in it the contents of the drawers, her tears all the while falling thickly whilst thus engaged. She little imagined that a pair of eyes were intently watching her



movements.



The door of the small room leading into the one occupied by Mrs. Grandison was ajar, and that lady, who had soon followed Linda, really distressed at the state in which she had quitted her presence, had intended, although, indeed, her intentions were very vague and undefined, to persist in her endeavours to prevail upon her to





be more explicit; but the sight of the poor girl thus engaged, the wretchedness of her appearance, her unfeigned grief, and evident determination to rush upon the wide world rather than tell who she was, touched the really warm heart of the cold seeming



woman.



It was affecting to see the poor childishlooking girl endeavouring, with her trembling hands, to perform what was evidently an unaccustomed labour, that of packing. Her widow's cap had been flung off, as it always was when she was alone, and her hair, hanging wildly about her tear-stained face, impetuously every moment was thrust back, displaying her face disfigured by weeping.

"Poor, poor child!" Mrs. Grandison's heart began to suggest, "how unfit she is to be sent abroad to buffet with this rude world!-but what can I do? With all these





pupils given so confidingly to my care, how should I be able to answer to their parents, their guardians, if any evil came from companionship with this stranger? I have watched her well during the month she has been with me, and I have detected nought that is wrong in her, save a childish impetuosity of character, which, with time and proper management, would, I am certain, be soon controlled. She has been evidently educated in a superior manner, and possesses first-rate abilities; and, as far as I can judge, and I have studied her deeply, has no guile in her naturally, but rather, on the contrary, though rash and impulsive, is more innocent and backward, with regard to anything approaching to evil, than most girls of her age; but this mystery and her obstinate silence, what can they mean? But, good heavens! how can I turn her out of the house without a friend to protect her?"





And now Mrs. Grandison, evidently painfully perplexed, walked several times to and fro across the apartment. Most certainly there was a hard struggle in her heart going forward between compassion and prudence, and again she went and looked through the half-closed door, and then she saw Linda still on her knees, endeavouring to make room for the last article, which she was vainly trying to press into the trunk. Prudence was fairly beginning to give way to the overpowering effects of the compassion rising in so full a flood in Mrs. Grandison's heart. "Poor, poor child, she is in no way fit to go alone; come what may I will give her a trial. At the very shadow of anything approaching to evil she shall go; but now, weak mortal as I really am, I cannot send her away."

And, without giving herself time for any more reflection, she gently entered unper





ceived, and laid her hand upon the shoulder of the still kneeling girl.

Linda started and looked round; what

an altered face she beheld!



All sternness



had passed from Mrs. Grandison's expression; tears stood in her eyes. It was like the look Linda had seen when the foreign letter was being read, so tender and yet so sad,that at once the impulsive girl was on her feet, her arms encircling the neck of the woman of whom, but a brief hour ago, she stood in such solemn awe, sobbing forth





"Then you will trust me-you will not send me away ?"

Linda had secured a friend.

In vain Mrs. Grandison endeavoured to look stern and dignified, to keep up the character she ever tried to enact: she was, indeed, in heart but a weak woman.

It would not do; her softer nature soon





rose to the ascendant; and she could not

repulse the poor clinging girl, but tenderly pressed her to her heart.



Linda now

And you will

of your kind



แ Oh, Mrs. Grandison!" sobbed, "then I may stay? never have reason to repent ness. I will work for you day and night, so joyfully, so earnestly; it will be my only happiness on earth to please you. How can I express my gratitude, my thankfulness? I have not words to tell all I feel."

"You need not express it," interrupted Mrs. Grandison; "deeds, not words, will amply repay me. Now go and unpack your trunk, my dear."

And the lady arose, - again the stately, stern-looking woman.



Months had passed by, spring was now bursting forth in all its verdant beauty,





and the



young teacher might be seen taking her part steadily, assiduously, in all the duties of her present vocation. Marvellously altered in appearance seemed Linda. She was just of an age when every day makes a difference in the looks of a girl; and her very altered expression of countenance, added to the other visible changes in her demeanour, was most striking.

The eyes once so restless, emitting such quick glances around, were now softer, more fixed and meditative, as if the thoughts of her heart were graver, calmer. There was more of peacefulness in her look; and though she smiled often and pleasantly, the boisterous, though at the same time melodious laugh which echoed through Mrs. Lewis's small abode, was never heard.

A change had, indeed, come over Linda.





CHAPTER XII.



"Now, Miss Caroline, pray don't make all this dreadful noise. Cannot you come into a room without making such a racket, startling the poor baby in its sleep?" exclaimed, in an irritated tone, an important looking nurse, who was seated before the fire with a child on her knee. This admonition was addressed to a girl who rushed impetuously into the nursery.

"Oh, you grumbling old creature, I shall do the brat no harm; don't you know that 'nought is never in danger,' and a seventh son! of what use can he be ?"

The nurse shrugged her shoulders, and looked daggers at the speaker.





"Yes, of what use can he be? Mamma ought to be ashamed of herself for going on having so many children, and with a daughter of nineteen, presuming to own one so young. These tiresome monkeys coming into the world only to curtail their elders of every enjoyment;-pests and plagues in every sense of the word!"

"Oh, Miss Caroline, Miss Caroline, it is quite dreadful to hear you talk,” said the nurse, in a tone of deep concern; and then she added, indignantly, "But don't come talking in that wicked manner here; you have no business in my nursery at any rate, and I won't have you in it talking this way, that's just the long and short of the matter; so if you cannot





"Hoity, toity, old woman!" said the girl, putting her hand before the nurse's mouth, and preventing her from finishing her speech, at the same time throwing an arm





caressingly round her neck and kissing her, "what a bad humour you are in, you old bore, taking all I say for gospel! — you know I dote upon, and am very sorry for that poor little wretch (darling, I mean, of course), but at the same time you must forgive me for my lack of any great tenderness towards him, for, do you know, my head was felt the other day by a phrenologist, and he discovered that I do not possess in the slightest degree the bump of philoprogenitiveness, so how can I help it ? "

"Bump of nonsense!” the nurse exclaimed, "Oh, Miss Caroline, many a heartache you give me, that I can say with truth; don't I often tell you, Miss Geraldine, how unhappy I am when I think of your sister's

strange sayings and doings?"

Caroline, or Car, as she was always called, burst into an immoderate fit of laughter,





which, for fear of Mrs. Nelson's indignation, she tried to smother by pressing her pocket-handkerchief against her mouth. When she had recovered her composure she continued: "Ah, poor Gerry, you are the very person I came to seek. I knew you would be moaning here with this cross old woman, Nelson, and weeping over that animated piece of flesh, our blessed seventh brother."

This tirade was addressed to a pale, gravelooking girl of sixteen, who was sitting in a desponding attitude close to the nurse.

"So, unfortunate little misery, you are really to be off to-morrow to Paris, to be again incarcerated for one whole year within the walls of that dungeon-looking abode, watched over by the grim she Cerberus who guards the prisoners. Oh, how I pity you! I wanted Papa to take me with him to






cheer you up, and have a look at Paris, but he will not hear of it! Expense again!always, always talking of that odious money, or rather the want of it; and what provokes me more than anything, always ringing the changes with that horrid speech about 'the large family;' upon my word, people are so anxious to marry, and what for I should like to know? but to suckle brats and chronicle small beer.""

"Now, seriously, Miss Caroline, this will never do; the rubbish you talk beats my understanding. No wonder your Papa and Mamma go to the expense of sending your sister away, to get her out of sight and sound of you and your bad example; I wish with all my heart you were married

and done for." And Mrs. Nelson waxed exceeding wrathful, but Car, who delighted in exciting a rise out of the nurse, by exposing her very ultra views upon most





subjects, went on to say: "Married! I marry! defend me from that dreadful alternative for many a long day; some ten years hence I may begin to think of it; not before, I can tell you."

Mrs. Nelson groaned, and rocked the child, who began to move, with an impatient gesture.

"Oh, Car!" now interposed the gentle voice of Geraldine," and yet how

you went on, and what trouble you gave about all those men you flirted with!"

"Oh, hold your tongue, you little idiot,” interrupted the sister; "what do you know about the matter? Went on,' indeed, and so I shall go on to the end of the chapter, - I mean, till the ten years specified are over, and I begin to think I have done my duty in the fast line, and that if I don't take some one by that time, I shall be left in the lurch; and then, depend upon it, I will





I



play a new game, but I'll have none of your. young ones, your boys, I can tell you. intend to marry for position, and I don't care how old, ugly, or disagreeable the creature may be; my mark will be the loaves and fishes."

"But, Car, some of them were not so very young, and had position as you call it—I mean Lord





"Hold your tongue!" again interrupted Car Eversfield; "I flirted with them out of pure mischief; I was determined to get them into my clutches, that was all. But come away, Gerry; don't you hear that odious sound, that din of worse than battlefield, the Philistines approaching? Oh, mercy, here they come!" she added as the nursery door opened, and a host of hats and feathers appeared, worn by small children, and their elder sister, with a gesture of disgust, rushed past them, and in a





moment disappeared. Geraldine remained, and was soon surrounded by the little group, assisting in removing their walking things, and caressing them with the feminine tenderness of an elder sister. And nurse Nelson looked at her, and with a sad shake of her head was thinking, "Who could believe those two girls were sisters, - children of the same parents?"

The girls we have just brought before our readers were the daughters of General Sir Hector Eversfield and Lady Julia his wife. He was an officer of much distinction, possessing what would be considered an ample fortune, were it not for the incumbrance of the twelve children his daughter has informed us were added to his possessions.

Caroline was the eldest of the family, a son the next, who had just entered the foot-guards; the rest of all ages, a nursery





full of little ones, to the great disgust of the vivacious Car, who was far too full of her own special plans of amusement, to bear with patience the largely divided share of her parents' attention to her exigeantes demands.





In a large family it is surprising to observe how strangely the several members of which it consists, vary in every respectappearance, temper, in every quality, both of the mind and heart with the same blood running through the veins, how totally opposed in character as well as features, partaking little apparently of the nature even of the parents who gave them birth. And a contrast indeed it was to look upon the mother and the daughter, as Car Eversfield, on her way from the nursery, passing an open door, abruptly entered the room, and stood before Lady Julia Eversfield, a fair faded woman, who was busily employed in





superintending the packing of a trunk destined for Geraldine.

"My dear Car," she exclaimed, in a low voice, "you really always startle me by the noisy manner in which you rush into a room; when will you, darling, ever learn to be more gentle, more, really I must say it, ladylike ?"

"Oh, Mamma, it is not my nature, I never shall be different, nor do I much care to be what people call ladylike, and what I call a piece of stupidity; you are always finding fault with me, but others do not think my manners so disagreeable."

And Car pouted, doing no disparagement to the reddest and fullest of beautiful lips.

"My dear child, I must find fault with you until I find your manners 'soften and improve. I can assure you, your Papa was talking only this morning of your boisterous ways, of the manner in which you conduct





yourself; so differently from what we like to see in our daughters; even, he says, when you are riding in the park, for instance."

"Oh good gracious, Mamma, if you go on in this manner I shall be off," cried the impetuous girl, putting her hands to her ears, and rushing forth, never stopping until reaching the drawing-room, where, seeing the window open, and hearing the sound of a military band, she was in an instant upon the balcony, watching a battalion of the foot-guards marching past from the park, and kissing her hand with much empressement to some of the officers who cast their glances upwards from amidst the overhanging shade of their bearskins.

A beautiful Hebe-looking creature was Car Eversfield, her complexion clear and blooming, with the bright hue of health and youth; her eyes dark and dazzling, lips full and red, and when parted by those dimpled





smiles which were ever hovering round her mouth, disclosing the finest and whitest of teeth. And her figure was symmetry itself; above the middle height, but every limb so beautifully rounded, rather inclining, we might add, to embonpoint. Yes, she was, to use rather a broad term, voluptuously lovely, this girl, as she stood thus conspicuously on that balcony, surrounded by plants and flowers, waving her handkerchief as the soldiers passed by, greeting several acquaintances amongst the gallant band with

"Nods, and becks, and wreathed smiles,

Such as hung on Hebe's cheek,”





forming a most alluring picture to all the present passers by, excepting one individual, who at that moment crossed over the street -her father. Car's quick eye soon saw him approaching, and also noted the annoyed expression upon his kind face.





"Oh, good gracious!" she exclaimed" now I'm in for it with a vengeance! Now that dear man, though he is what he is called, an indulgent father, is at this moment thinking that he would dearly like to shut me up in the guard-room, or put a log round my leg, or even, though I suppose that fashion has gone by, summoning a drum-head court-martial and inflicting fifty lashes upon his wicked daughter. Oh, here he comes; well, I must bluster it out, or coax him, as well as I can."

And Car turned her face towards her father, so animated and brilliant, and at once exclaimed, approaching the General who entered the room, caressingly: "Now darling Papa, don't scold me; remember I am a soldier's daughter and can never resist the sound of the drums and fifes; I could not help stepping out into the balcony to look at those fine fellows. Now you shall not be angry with me," she continued, as the General began





in a severe manner with "Really, Car," stopping his mouth by many a sweet kiss and blandishment, and ending at length by fairly vanquishing the man who was stouthearted as a lion but in one small corner of his heart, and that was his too yielding love for this, his headstrong daughter.

"Well, I won't be angry, then," at length he found means to say; "but

"Oh! that 'but,' that horrid 'but,' means all sorts of dreadful things. That it was wicked of me, I will confess, to be seen on the balcony bowing to the officers, and unladylike, as mamma would say; and that no wonder you are shocked and ashamed of your poor Car. But she will change and be a piece of starch, stiff formality, or you will cease to love her and make her so happy by your love as you have always hitherto done, darling, darling Papa, ever since she can remember anything."





And now the girl tried to play the pathetic, and certainly looked so very beautiful in this well-acted expression of her countenance, that the doting father, quite softened, only said,

"Well, well, we will say no more about it at present; but, Car, you cannot imagine how bold you looked standing there, the wind blowing about your petticoats, nodding so familiarly to those men. It is not the habit of modest girls to make themselves so conspicuous."

"Well, dear Pappy, I won't do it never no more. The next time I hear the band, I will let down the blinds and shut the shutters, and only peep through the crevices. And please don't tell mamma, for you see she is already in a fuss about Geraldine to-day, and that makes her a little cross,―nervous, of course, I mean,- and she has a bad enough opinion of poor me already."





The General promised silence.



And



thus it was that Car Eversfield generally vanquished one who was really a hero in the battle field, but, we are obliged to add, very soft and yielding under the influence of the blandishments of the



young Circe.





CHAPTER XIII.



Two young Guardsmen were walking down St. James's Street; they were talking gaily as they went on their careless way.

"That was a splendid affair at H— House last night," remarked one of them.

"You seemed to think it agreeable, certainly, and to get on like a house on fire with that slippery beauty, Car Eversfield,” was the reply; "but, my good fellow, 'take care! beware!""

Oh, I'll take care," the first speaker answered hastily, with a heightened colour. "Indeed, you had better," the other persisted; "you little know how dangerous she is."





At this very moment a carriage passed, out of which was seen the brightest of faces and one kissing her hand to the two young men with the utmost empressement.

"What a lovely creature she certainly is!" exclaimed Captain Ashton, the elder of the two officers. "I remember last year, when she first came out, I was desperately in love with her."

แ But, I suppose, she snubbed you, and destroyed the illusion," remarked Norman Lawless, tartly.

"Well, it was certainly something of the kind, I must confess; she contrived to disenchant me, at any rate, of my love, though I must always admire the charms of her person," was the good-natured reply. "There is nothing like experience; and as the burnt child dreads the fire, I fear for you, old boy, my friend and brother officer, falling into the same snare which the un





sparing beauty spreads for all mankind, and you could not so easily get out of it as I did; you are more worth keeping in it, though I question if even you in the end would not be finally eclipsed. You are an only son of rich and titled parents, and are different in all respects to me. I have all my life been obliged to practice self-denial, so everything hard and disagreeable comes more easily; but to you,





the spoilt, the indulged, from the babe to the man-you would not so easily endure to be cast off for another victim."

"Oh! for mercy's sake, don't prose so dismally," Lawless interrupted, hastily. "I'm off to the park, so good-bye!'

"What creatures these fast London young ladies are!" Cyril Ashton continued to muse, after his companion had left him, "a race quite of its own species, terrible snares to the poor, green, uninitiated youths fresh





launched upon a London world, and Car Eversfield, what a regular mischievous little demon she is! so fascinating and yet I fear so wholly unprincipled ; - however I must not be too severe upon her, I who was once captivated, led to the very brink of a precipice, from which one encouraging word from her would have precipitated me. But I need not have been afraid, she knew better, the heartless Siren; she has played the same game with many others since she gave me up, having gained her point in thoroughly ensnaring my heart, and for the time making me most miserable; and so she will continue to go on, rejoicing in mischief. She won't marry in a hurry, that's not her mark at present, and so much the better, for what a life she would lead a husband! I hear she has refused Lord Sinclair, who would have been such a splendid catch, and just the man not to stand being played the





but



no, her thirst for attraction



fool with;

is not half slaked.





She evidently now has her eye upon Lawless, who will prove such an easy victim with his uncontrollable feelings. If I had daughters," the young man continued to soliloquise, "I would rather see them unformed, old-fashioned, awkward country girls all their lives, than the most vaunted, the most admired of London young ladies. I scarcely think I should dare to bring them here at all; the very atmosphere is tainted, poisonous to simplicity and modesty; and a girl in some sets, after what is called a regular London season, comes up to my idea of that very trite old remark, of the bloom being rubbed off the peach, no longer fresh, or pure, or desirable, after having been seen and handled by so many; my daughters shall never waltz ;" and, now he laughed, "my daughters, indeed! I am certainly progressing wonderfully. 'First catch





your hare,' Mrs. Rundle says, in her cookery book, before she enters into further particulars about dressing it, and I, poor devil as I am," he sighed, "how am I ever to catch the mother of my daughters?"

These two young men had been friends from childhood; Cyril Ashton the elder by a few years of the two. Norman Lawless was an only child, with far higher prospects. His father was an Irish viscount, who had married a Scotch heiress of considerable wealth, which was very necessary to prop up his wasted fortune and repair the walls of Castle Lawless, the family seat in Ireland, which, from want of means, was speedily falling into utter decay.

We fear that it was dire necessity alone which had induced Lord Turraghmore to offer his handsome person and empty purse to this very unattractive Scotch woman. Norman Lawless, whom we have just





introduced to our readers, was the only son of this marriage. From his earliest days he had exercised unlimited control over his stern and frigid mother. Soldiering having been his hobby ever since he had been strong enough to wield a baby sword, after Eton, and a year or two at Oxford, he had wrung from his parents a reluctant consent for him to go into the Guards, and we now present him to our readers at the age of twenty-two, having joined at a late period. But that little mattered to one who had no need of the army as a profession. He was a fine-looking young man, certainly; monopolising the beauty of the family, and inheriting much of his father's Irish nature and little of his mother's cold, calculating prudence.

Never having been controlled as a boy, now as a man he brooked no interference which militated against his inclinations, or





thwarted his indomitable will. Norman Lawless could be an agreeable companion, open-handed and hearty in his demeanour to those he liked, and who were subservient to his will, but cross his path, interfere with his determined will, and then did his expression change, his countenance assume a look so sinister and excitable as to cause an unpleasant feeling to those who looked upon it.

In a short time after Norman Lawless had passed, mounted on his beautiful horse, he might again have been seen, his arm leaning upon the window sill of Lady Julia's close carriage, in which, much to her daughter's disgust, she was incarcerated this beautiful afternoon. One of the children had been indisposed, and was having its first airing. Car's horse was lame, and she could not have her ride, and as for leaving her at home alone, Lady Julia never considered that an expedient act.





The bird who had been caught and caged, and with a very dissatisfied air had sat longing to break loose, only brightening up when she occasionally passed some adoring swain or favoured partner, was soon entering, heart and soul, into a whispering flirtation with the handsome young Guardsman, nearly annihilating him with the glances of her bright eyes the smiles which played about her dimpled mouth; the happy youth never heeding, as he claimed them as all his own, that ever and anon a most alluring accolade was also cast upon some other passer-by, who looked with envious eye upon the place thus usurped by the presumptuous youth. Certainly Car Eversfield had many strings to her bow.





CHAPTER XIV.



ОH! ye mothers of England who groan beneath the burden of large families, cease to murmur, and bear the weight with fortitude, if only your children are well-conditioned and promising for good as they grow



up.



It is a comforting adage to those who consider their quivers rather over full, that "large families generally do best," and certainly it is wonderful to observe how often a numerous progeny do get on mighty well, in households where one might have supposed even the number of pairs of shoes would be a difficult matter to supply.





But numbers certainly do greatly increase our family cares; it is quite an erroneous theory, whatever may be said, on the subject of only children being the heaviest of burdens to parents. Our cares are at least concentrated when there is only one, instead of the poor divided heart, here and there and everywhere, yearning after sons and daughters, either separated by distance or troubling the mind by other anxieties equally distressing. It is the idea of Car Eversfield which has induced us thus to digress so gloomily; this one of a large family, a girl so fair, so bewitching to look upon, and yet the one who added a hundred fold of weight to the cares of her parents, her mother in particular.

The General was too much under the spell of the fascination of his beautiful daughter, to look upon her faults and failings with eyes rendered so clear-sighted





by anxiety as her mother's; but poor Lady Julia, who was of a nervous temperament, and her health rather delicate, watched with daily increasing affright the developing character of this daughter (who, though she had always been a troublesome child to manage, enraging the nurses, waging war with the governesses, tormenting, not so much in malice as in fun, her brothers and sisters), had been nevertheless a favourite with every one. We fear her beauty had much to do with the supremacy she acquired, her playful vivacity adding to her attractive charms, her faults all seeming, in those young days, to spring from a love of mischief more than naughtiness. Certainly she was petted and indulged far above the other more deserving children, and it became the custom of the house to succumb to her whims and fancies, perhaps as much for the sake of a quiet life as for any other



reason.





Lady Julia, when the General was away, had often tried to exercise some discipline upon her volatile daughter, but any little improvement that had been achieved was soon entirely destroyed on her father's



return.



His unbounded love and admiration blinded his eyes to the perils which surrounded this spoilt one, and the mother felt powerless to interfere.

Sometimes, after too glaring an escapade, the General was roused to anger and disapprobation, but this soon melted away, and was forgotten, after a few sharp words had been spoken, and a tear dropped from the bright eyes of his offending daughter.

"Never mind, Julia," he would say in private to his wife; "she will be all right, when she is a little older, she will steady down, depend upon it; you think far too seriously of her madcap ways; I wish she





could impart a little of her exuberance to Geraldine. What a quiet little mouse she is!"

"Yes, compared to her sister most certainly," was the reply; "but oh, Hector, defend me from two Cars. I look with terror upon all the other girls, fearing they may have some of her nature in them; but as yet, I am thankful to say, I have not perceived anything approaching to her disposition. But forewarned, forearmed.' Car was always indulged and encouraged in her wayward flights. I take care to bring the others up very differently. Dear Geraldine is all that I can desire as a daughter, gentle, obedient, and affectionate. I grieve to part with her, but it is quite necessary. I cannot keep her here at her age, her mind in a transition state between a child and a woman, with such an example before her as poor Car."

"Upon my word, my lady," exclaimed





the General, waxing rather wroth at this censure of his darling, "I think you take a most harsh view of the innocent foibles and follies of your daughter. I see nothing in them but the exuberance of high spirits. Car enjoys everything with all the energy and freshness of youth and light heartedness. She has no guile in her composition, depend upon it, and when a little sobered

I must allow she requires some bringing down from her high stilts), will do very well. We must try and find her by and by some husband who will take care of her; some quiet prudent man, no highflyer like herself."

Lady Julia shook her head despondingly, and then said with a sigh,

"Oh that is a very sore subject to me. Such a husband as you describe, I fear she will never attain; and do you know, Hector, that one of my great sources of disquiet on Car's account is the manner in





which she scouts the idea of matrimony, always declaring that it will be many a day before she gives up her 'glorious liberty,' as she calls it; not, she says, till she is at least eight-and-twenty, and then she intends to marry for position, not love; such unfeminine, unnatural ideas for a young creature like her!"

The General knitted his brows for a moment, and then the partial smile beamed again.

"What a curious girl she is!" he said. "But Julia, you take far, far too seriously all the nonsense she talks; just wait till the right man comes, and then see if Car will not tell a different story; a few years hence, when she is older and steadier."

"A few years hence," groaned the mother; and she added, with a deep sigh, "she will have worn me to death long before a few years have passed."




CHAPTER XV.



OH, Millicent, don't you think the life of a well-conducted, what is called a well-caredfor young lady, the dullest, the most wearisome of all things here below?" remarked Car Eversfield to a young friend of her own sort, who had joined her on horseback whilst riding with her father in the park some days after.





"I suppose we of the fast sort think so, was the answer. "It depends, I suppose, upon the temperament of the individual, as mamma is always saying."

"Well, my temperament is to loathe and detest it. Now, for instance, to be jogging





on as we are doing at this moment, whilst our fathers are discussing some stupid point which absorbs their whole souls, when I should like to be galloping full speed round the park, followed by some amusing young fellows, leaving the wise heads far behind; and oh! to have nothing from morning till night but propriety dinned into one's ears-I, who hate its dulness as I do poison. I tell you what, Milly, I feel sometimes inclined to do anything, however horrible, to get out of it all.”

"Well, you can marry, at any rate, which every one cannot manage.'

"Marry!" and a look of disgust spread over the radiant face; "that would, indeed, be a dreadful way of gaining liberty, even if by that means it might be gained. But the man you mean that I could perhaps marry, is not the one to give me freedom; no, rather would he load me with chains





far heavier than those I already wear, although they might be made of gold; just look at him, for here he comes! did you ever see such a silly, dolorous-looking creature? It amuses me to tease and vex him sometimes, to make him think that I am coming round, after all; although lately he has been queerish in his ways, I can tell you, beginning, I believe, to understand me too well. But you know, Milly, I have just now another victim caught safely in my net; that young Lawless!-so I could amuse myself very well, if it were not for Mamma, who is so





Car was interrupted by the sudden proximity of the two strings to her bow, of which she was at this moment boasting. A good-looking, very young man had ridden up to her side from the opposite direction; so close, indeed, was he at her elbow, that she was startled by the thought





that he might have heard his name, just fallen from her lips, and the sudden blush which rose to her cheeks not only made her more than ever beautiful, but impressed the young officer with the delightful hope that it might be some favourable feeling towards himselt which caused the tell-tale suffusion.

But only for a second was this pleasing idea allowed to remain upon his mind; for Car, with some petulance, exclaimed

"How you startled me, Mr. Lawless! if it had been my brother Albert, I should most assuredly have boxed his ears. Don't you know that I am as nervous as a deer ?"

"No, certainly, I did not," was the reply. "Of all people in the world I should have said that you were the last to come at all under the class of nervous subjects." "Now, Mr. Lawless, if you mean that as a compliment, you have quite missed your





mark. You meant to insinuate that I am a hard, ironminded girl, with none of the pretty weaknesses of my sex; a bold, strong creature, possessing nerve sufficient to do anything, beginning from dancing upon the tightrope (which, by the by, I have always longed to do) to thrusting my head into a tiger's mouth and taming wild beasts; now is not that what you really think? You cannot deny it, I see by your guilty face."





Young Lawless began an earnest refutation of this accusation, but Car had ceased to listen to him; she was engaged in talking to Lord Sinclair, who was now riding on her other side.

Lord Sinclair was about thirty-two or thirty-three years old; looking perhaps older than his age, his countenance grave and thoughtful; the very last man one might have imagined to be captivated by a





girl like Car Eversfield, whose appearance and manners were the very reverse of what we could have imagined to be his beau ideal of a young lady.

But there is no accounting for such irregularities in the human mind. Love, or that attraction of the fancy which leads to the desire of possession, is quite a disconnected feeling in the nature of man; it does not hinge upon a single characteristic of an individual, nor on any of his previous tastes, habits, or feelings, but



"The power of Love!'

Who can withstand its all-powerful influence?



His



And so it was with Lord Sinclair. reigning passion from a boy had been music, in which he excelled as a performer; and, till he had seen Car Eversfield, any attention he had hitherto paid to young ladies was circumscribed towards those





who could enter into this his absorbing taste. There were several debutanti furiore who had hoped they had gained some footing in his heart by the pleasure he had evinced in their performance, and the hours he had willingly spent in their society, practising with them, accompanying the pianists with his cornopean, or even violin, and joining his fine barytone voice in their duets and trios. But they would, indeed, have been mortified, these hopeful aspirants, had they been aware that they were considered, by this most valuable parti, merely in the same light as a musical instrument, or professor of some utility. Nothing further ever resulted from these marked attentions; although his family were always of opinion that whenever he did marry it must surely be to some finished musician; and Lady Sunderland, most anxious to see her only son settled in life,





spared no pains to draw around her all the singing and playing young ladies of any consideration, in the hope of seriously attracting his attentions.

But vain were the endeavours; a mother's labour in the case of matrimony is too often lost time and trouble.

It was at a concert, in the midst of the most absorbing music, that Lord Sinclair's attention was attracted, by the feeling of great annoyance he was undergoing, by hearing the sound close behind him of incessant talking and laughing going on, at a crisis of a song which ought to have enraptured every one and silenced every tongue; no longer able to endure it, he suddenly and angrily turned round and faced the offender. And there she stood, that dimpled Hebe-Car Eversfield, her bright eyes sparkling with light and fun. At once she understood the state of the





case; perfectly was she aware how she had disgusted and outraged this well-known fanatico per la musica- but what cared



she?



Indeed, from that moment a thought had darted into her versatile mind.

"I'll make him think of something else besides that tiresome music," was her determination; and, without losing any more time, her eyes were fixed steadily, with a glance she knew well how to bend, upon those of the now abashed and stricken Lord Sinclair, who felt at once their miraculous power. How changed in a moment were his feelings, considering himself the culprit for having dared with so impatient a gesture, and so frowning a brow, to look upon one so surpassingly lovely. When the song was ended, Car whispered in his



ear



"Lord Sinclair, I ought, I know, to apo





logise for my want of taste and good-breeding in making such a noise when Novello was singing. I fear you will henceforward shun my proximity in a concert-room."

She had never been introduced to Lord Sinclair, but she knew him well by sight, as they met frequently at the same parties; and Lord Sinclair may have also known her by name, and perhaps, in a general way, in person, but probably had really never looked at her before; but Car cared not a rush for this.

She felt determined to make his acquaintance and hook the shy fish, as she afterwards told Millicent Danniers, her intimate friend and gossip; by that she meant, "make him in love with her." And Lord Sinclair, perfectly overwhelmed with contrition, his blood tingling with a new-born sensation, whilst under the influence of those dazzling eyes, now so beseechingly fixed upon him, stam





mered out something about his being the person to apologise, and then offered his arm to lead her into the refreshment-room, the first part of the concert being over.

From this moment may be dated poor Lord Sinclair's defeat; for the first time in his life he felt irretrievably attracted, even after he had heard from her own lips that she cared little for music, and that no master or mistress could ever succeed in teaching her. Not even then did his admiration cool, -no, Car was determined that it should not; and she told him the truth with such a depreciating expression, was so sorry, she declared, to be obliged to confess this lowering fact, that a man, who had proclaimed that music was a sine quâ non in a woman, began to think that it could not add to the perfection of the lovely one before him.

And thus it went on, Car glorying in this conquest above any that she had ever yet





made. "This man of all others," she would boast, "the grave, impenetrable old fogy, who had never considered a woman but in the light of an embodied pianoforte, now to be over head and heels in love with me, who do not know a crotchet from a quaver, or 'God save the Queen' from 'Hoop-dedooden-do.""

And so it went on; poor Lady Julia rejoicing, though in trembling, thinking what a safe, excellent marriage this would be for her most troublesome child, splendid as to position, - and what was much better, the really right-minded woman thought,-such a good man.





"But," she repeated, "what an extraordinary marriage it would be for Lord Sinclair to make! - the very last likely to suit his tastes and habits; and Car, what a changed life it would be to her!" Thus Lady Julia thought and felt during this second season





of her daughter's appearance in the gay world, whilst she watched Lord Sinclair's unceasing attentions, and also with terror Car's escapades, her perfect disregard of the proprieties of life, receiving attentions from every man who came near her; at one moment overwhelming Lord Sinclair with her fascinating wiles, the next plunging him into despair by her outrageous conduct towards others.

The General was a great deal away on military business this spring, and the poor mother had to accompany this vexatiously anxious charge to every description of dissipation; herself in delicate health, and her heart in her nursery full of babes.

In vain she talked and lectured; Car laughed at all she said. But one day after Lady Julia had implored her to be more circumspect for the sake of her future wellbeing, "for," she added, "you may depend





upon it, Car, Lord Sinclair will never propose to you if you continue to conduct yourself in, I really must call it, so improper a manner; last night, for instance, were you not missing for hours at the ball? and then you appeared from the garden with young Lawless. I watched Lord Sinclair's countenance, he looked thoroughly disgusted and annoyed ""Lord Sinclair!" Car exclaimed; "and do you think I care that for what he thinks?" and she snapped her fingers with a contemptuous gesture. "I'll make him propose to me before the week is out, and then you will see what I shall do."

And thus saying, she bounced out of the room, leaving her poor mother more than ever overwhelmed, her only comfort at the moment being to sit down to write to Sir Hector, imploring him, if possible, to come to her rescue, for that, really, Car was far beyond her management.





CHAPTER XVI.



"PROPOSE to me he shall!" was Car Eversfield's fixed determination; "as for marrying him," she continued to ponder, "catch me doing such a slow thing; he is the very last man on earth I could endure to wed. I would rather live in a barrack all my life with one of those young guardsmen, with twopence a year, than encounter the dulness of a splendid existence with Lord Sinclair; however, I am not going to be dropt by him. No, he shall ask me, just that I may have the pleasure of saying 'No.'"

So resolved, at the ball that night, our young Circe met this man, over whose





heart she had gained so complete a conquest, — this man, hitherto so invulnerable,

so superior one might have imagined to the allurements of such a girl as Car Eversfield, who possessed no one attraction but her beauty.

But so it is, and so it ever will be.

Strong men have always one vulnerable spot, however iron-cased appear their natures. Only find out what that weakness is, and the result is certain.

Car Eversfield, quick-sighted in such matters, had speedily discovered that this grave, pre-occupied-looking man, his imagination fenced around hitherto by the pursuit which had been from his infancy the absorbing delight of his life, had scarcely yet given a thought to other attractive feelings.

What a triumph to be the first to thaw that frozen heart!





And this she had accomplished; her witcheries had infected his whole being, he was an altered man, and would gladly have succumbed at once without a struggle.

But Car, as soon as she perceived that her end was gained, and that her victim was fairly entangled in the meshes of her net, was quite satisfied. She cared not for more, and leaving him to struggle free as he might, flew off to some new scheme of conquest, fixing upon young Lawless as her next



prey.



Lord Sinclair's eyes began to see more clearly what was the nature of the woman he now loved with the intensity of a first grande passion. He knew her to be false, fickle, cruel, but still he could not disengage himself from the chains with which her attractions had loaded him; - no, still he fiercely loved, though it was with a different feeling that he regarded her; it was pas





sion, not the reverential devotion of a man, who considers the goddess of his idolatry more in the light of an angel than a woman. However, of late he had ceased to importune her with his marked attentions; he endeavoured to struggle against the infatuation which was changing his very nature, lowering him in his own estimation, and attracting the attention of his own family by the alteration of his habits and demeanour. No! it would never do; he must shake it off, cost what it might; he would leave London as soon as he possibly could,—some important business at the moment detained him there; in the meantime, should he meet her again, he would be decided in his changed manner towards the girl; would show her that he did not choose to be made a fool of. He acted upon this resolve, and Caroline soon perceived that two could play at the same game, and that Lord Sinclair,





desperately in love as he decidedly was, did not intend to stand any more nonsense.

So, acting upon this discovery, the heart_ less coquette changed her tack, and again put forth the whole artillery of her charms to draw once more to her side her receding lover. Splendidly handsome she looked that night at D- - House, where a large ball was given. Her dress was exquisite in its simplicity and good taste. Before starting, when Car had entered the drawingroom, ready to depart, her opera cloak covering her neck and shoulders, Lady Julia had requested that she would remove it, that she might see the effect of the new ball dress; - Lady Julia, poor woman, always dreading to think how far she might have reason to be shocked at the too great exposure of those white shoulders and beautiful bust.

This night the mother's heart sank as she





gazed at the décolleté state of her young daughter; and she exclaimed in an accent of dismay, "Car, I will not go with you in that state; I consider your dress indecently low. Can anything be done to it? If not, you must change it for some other; and she rang the bell and desired that Miss Eversfield's maid might be sent for.

A scene of most disagreeable altercation ensued; Lady Julia, generally so passive, was now determined and firm. She would not allow her daughter to leave the house attired in so unseemly, so immodest a manner. After many angry and disrespectful words addressed to her mother, tears of rage coursing each other down her cheeks, she was obliged to submit, whilst the maid drew the dress over the exposed shoulders, and with the aid of lace, endeavoured to veil the charms so unrestrainedly exposed to the public gaze.





The brow of the beauty was louring, and the poor exhausted Lady Julia looked paler and more careworn than ever when they entered the splendid saloons of D

House. The very first person they encountered was Lord Sinclair, in the act of making his way through the crowd in order to facilitate his escape, but, like a sunbeam darting through the gloom of a sombre cloud, a smile arrested his progress, and a pair of eyes were fixed on him with an expression quite unusual, drawing the infatuated man, like the needle to the load

stone, to the fair one's side.

"You are late, Miss Eversfield," were his Lordship's first words.

"Yes," she replied pensively, and in so subdued a manner to her usual sprightly, off-hand address; "but I daresay you did not miss me."



Why should you think so?" was eagerly demanded.





"Because, lately, you have seemed to shun me, Lord Sinclair; I can assure you I have felt the difference in your manner,—I, who really was so proud of your friendship."

"Miss Eversfield," exclaimed Lord Sinclair, greatly moved, "can you really mean what you are saying, or is it only amusing yourself at my expense?—you know that you are apt to do such things sometimes. Will you dance this quadrille ?" and he offered his arm, which she immediately accepted; and what happened during a long interval which elapsed, Lady Julia had no means of ascertaining, as her daughter never approached her, and the crowd was so great that she could not make her way for some time into the dancing room, out of which were conservatories and gardens illumined by coloured lamps. But Car was busily engaged; she achieved much business dur





ing the time; drew from poor Lord Sinclair a proposal of marriage, which she neither accepted nor declined, but only begged for a little time to consider such a serious step; to-morrow she would give him an answer. And now, having gained her point completely, she turned her thoughts into another channel.

"This will never do," she cogitated; "I am not going to have a dull evening, and waste my time in playing good and gentle by that old man's side (Lord Sinclair was only thirty-three); there is poor Lawless half dead with fury and jealousy; I really must comfort and cheer him a little."

"Will you take me to mamma?" she said, demurely, as she rose from her seat.

They had been sitting in the garden, and had entered the conservatory in order to reach the house, when Car encountered the gloomy young guardsman, who had





been hovering about, watching with terrific glances the pair, and noting, with torturing feelings, Lord Sinclair's looks of love and devotion, as he sat whispering into the ear of his captivating companion. As Car passed him she again put forth all the artillery of her smiles and looks, seeing at once the state of his mind; and whilst Lord Sinclair turned away for a moment to speak to a lady, she whispered

"What is the matter?-are you not going to ask me to dance to-night?"

Poor young man in a moment what a change was wrought by those looks, those words! With a sigh of thankfulness he asked her to waltz, and Lord Sinclair was civilly informed, though in sweet-sounding words, that "he might go about his business."

"But I thought you wished to be taken to Lady Julia?" he expostulated, not at all





relishing the idea of leaving her, to whom he had plighted his faith, in the hands of that young guardsman, whom he had disliked and feared as a most dangerous rival. But Car Eversfield little cared what he might think; she had accomplished all she wished; and what he thought or felt was perfectly indifferent to her. The rest of the evening was spent quite to her satisfaction, conducting herself in a manner which quiet, undemonstrative young ladies can little imagine, and which would make the uninitiated in such ways, wonder and exclaim how such things could possibly be, and how men, even the most satiated, who do certainly admire, respect, and sometimes worship modesty,—in their sober moments desiring, above all other qualities, that special one in their wife, should be so completely enthralled, heart and soul, in the allurements of a Delilah, for it does seem,





of modern



to the inexperienced in the way society, antagonistic in the extreme. But we will not for a moment desecrate the feeling with which men regard these fast girls, with the name of love; it has no affinity to that more refined passion.

The conquered Lord Sinclair had to make his way alone to Lady Julia, and when by her side he told her what he had done, that he had offered to her daughter his hand, his heart.

For a moment the mother's heart beat high with joy. Such a marriage for her unpromising child—such a man! just the one to guide and guard one so young and thoughtless; and she asked eagerly — "And has she accepted you?"

"I could not induce Miss Eversfield to give me a decided answer; she begged I would leave her till to-morrow to consider. But, Lady Julia," he asked anxiously, "you





do not think I have any reason to fear a refusal ?"

Poor Lady Julia in her sinking heart felt that there was, indeed, great fear; all she could say was, with much earnestness and warmth,—

"Oh, Lord Sinclair, if Car were to be your wife, her lot, I feel, would be indeed a most happy one."





CHAPTER XVII.



LADY JULIA was far too much exhausted, when at length Car was caught and with difficulty persuaded to return home, to be able to enter upon the subject uppermost in her thoughts, until she had recruited her strength for what she might hear; and it was late in the following afternoon before the fair one, wearied also by her various exertions of mind and body, had opened her eyes, after the fatigues of the preceding night.

When at length she did appear before her mother, then the tug of war commenced. "What an idiot the man is to have told you anything about it!" Car exclaimed, after





Lady Julia had spoken. "He is only ex-

posing himself. I'm not going to marry him,

I can tell you, mamma," she said. Lady

Julia's heart sank.



"What can you then have meant, Car, by the manner in which you encouraged him last night? I saw plainly that Lord Sinclair was rather inclined to avoid you when we first entered the room, and that

you actually forced yourself upon his notice."





"I meant nothing at all but to have a little amusement at his expense; he has been showing me the cold shoulder lately and I will not bear that from any man," the girl said, defiantly. Lady Julia was speechless with dismay; with hands clasped together she sat, her eyes fixed upon her daughter's face, despair at her heart.

What was to become of this girl? — what terrible complication of evils would not her conduct produce, not only to herself but to





all those belonging to her?-what would be the end of all this?

"And you intend, then, to refuse Lord Sinclair?" at length Lady Julia faltered.

"I would just as soon marry old Thompson, the butler," Car replied. "That dismallooking piece of propriety! a pretty slow life I should have with him! No, no, I thank you, he is not at all of my sort; I have brought him to his senses, and now I shall wish him good morning."





Very well, Car, then I desire you will write his dismissal. I shall have nothing to do with it," Lady Julia resumed, with grave displeasure. "Your conduct has been improper in the extreme. You have fallen low, indeed, in my estimation. I pray that none of your sisters may be in any one respect like you."

"Oh, mamma, do you mean that I ought to marry a man without feeling one atom of





love for him, just because he will be an earl with an immense fortune? I thought you would be the last person in the universe to advocate such worldly views,-you, who are always preaching duty and principle, and all that sort of things."

"No, Car; what shocks and thoroughly disgusts me in this case, is the shameful conduct you have pursued towards that man, so superior in every way to your own unworthy self; how completely you have lured him on to commit himself by offering his hand to you. I trust, much as I desire to see you well married, that I am still quite incapable of asking or wishing any daughter of mine to accept as a husband, a man, however desirable, that she could not regard with sufficient affection to enable her to look forward, without shrinking, to be his wife. No, Car, I watched you attentively last night before you vanished for so long





from my sight with Lord Sinclair, and for a few minutes my heart was filled with pleasure; for I thought surely no girl could look as you did, act as you did, and not feel love towards the man whom she thus looked upon." Car laughed mockingly. "You did not before give me credit, I suppose, for being such a good actress? No, I do not care that," and she snapped her fingers, "for him, or his title, his fortune, or his worthiness: the latter musty, fusty qualification, the last in the world to be any recommendation to me."





Well, I have quite done with you," Lady Julia indignantly rejoined. "I shall write to your father and tell him the whole story; and, until his return, I shall beg to decline everything in the shape of going out. And now I will leave you to compose your letter of dismissal to Lord Sinclair, rejoicing, for his sake, that he has





escaped such a destiny as a future life with you must surely have proved."

Car began to cry; she saw before her more difficulties than she had bargained for. Her father's displeasure, the only thing on earth that ever touched her; and then to be shut up like a nun in that dull house with her mother, whom she never had considered a lively companion; and such a pleasant new flirtation she had just commenced, which she really found so peculiarly agreeable and piquante; and, to crown it all, to have a letter of so difficult a nature to concoct to Lord Sinclair,-she, who was such a bad hand at anything of the sort.

"Oh, mamma," she began, deprecatingly, "do pray help me, and just tell me what I ought to say—you know I shall never be able to do it you always tell me that I do not even spell properly; you do not wish me to expose my ignorance, do you?"





"I care not what you do," Lady Julia said, quite irritated into petulance, as she left the room; "only I beg you will write, and not give me any further annoyance on the subject."

And the mother, with grief and anger at her heart, left the presence of a daughter, once so petted and idolised, but now sunk so low in her estimation; one whom she considered so terrible a trial, standing at the head of so large a family of sisters.

What a disadvantage must she prove to those other four young creatures !

"God grant that they may be kept from following in her footsteps," was the poor woman's inward cry, as she hastened to the sanctuary of her own room, where, having first locked her door, her anger melting into sorrow, with tears streaming from her eyes, she lifted up her heart in prayer, imploring mercy for herself, her erring daughter, and





for her other children'; beseeching that her own sins might not be visited upon them.

And whilst thus laying bare her heart to the great Searcher of Hearts, how fearfully acute became the remembrance of her sins of omission and commission, especially those which hinged most immediately upon the present subject of her distress.

It is an awful, fearful retrospect for parents to look faithfully and steadily back upon their whole conduct as fathers or mothers, commencing from the very beginning of their children's career; and, with eyes cleared from the mist of partial blindness, to trace, step by step, their own misdoings, their selfishness, indolence, vanity, pride, cupidity,-all mingling in the bringing up of their families; yes, and their neglect of constant, earnest prayer for direction in the course of the education and advancing years of their sons and daughters;





dazzled as they too often are by those adventitious circumstances which are merely earthly and carnal.

Many an affrighted, repentant parent has seen the reflection of their own sins in a child most fondly loved, and that sin by degrees changing itself into a scorpion, to wound the hand of one, whose whole heart and soul has been engaged in administering to the happiness of a child far more precious than life itself.

Yes, it is indeed a true and faithful saying, that "the sins of the fathers are visited upon the children."





CHAPTER XVIII.



CAR, when left alone, gave way, as she always did, to loud bewailings. When she wept, it was with more violence than grown-up persons in general think it at all necessary to pour forth their woes; her lamentations, like her laughter, were loud, not deep.

"How cross mamma is!" she sobbed forth. "Oh! I wish I had any other woman in the world for a mother; she has become so prim and particular, never letting one have a moment's peace; and she will write, and make out a pretty story And this horrid letter that I have to write to that odious, tiresome



to papa.





wretch of a man! Why was I such an idiot as to try to make a fool of him? I have done for myself with a vengeance! And not to be allowed to go out anywhere till papa returns-I, who made an appointment with young Lawless to meet him this very night at Mrs. G.'s! Oh, what shall I do?"

And the brilliant Car now played the part of a weeping Niobe. The door just then opened.

"If you please, my lady, the woman is come about the children's hats," said Mrs. Nelson, the nurse, looking round the room in search of Lady Julia. "But what is the matter, Miss Caroline?"

"The matter? plenty's the matter. I am the most miserable wretch in the world!" And now Car flew to the nurse, and throwing her arms round her, began afresh her noisy moanings.





"Now, my dear, compose yourself," was the soothing answer. "I daresay you have been doing something to vex your mamma, and you are sorry for it, and you ought to be; for oh! Miss Car--'

"Sorry for it!" cried the girl, starting back, and looking fiercely at the nurse; "I am not sorry for that! I am the ill-treated one;—yes, you may look as if you did not believe me, but it is true, notwithstanding, Madam nurse!"

Mrs. Nelson still shook her head disbelievingly. "Your mamma never acts unkindly by any of her children, my dear."

"Will you just listen, you very wise old woman, to what I am going to say, and answer me truly? Do you think it is kind of a mother to be angry with a daughter for not wishing to marry an ugly, dismal, cross old fellow, whom she considers more in the light of a sign-post than a man?"





That, I am sure, your mamma never would do. I have not served her for nineteen years without knowing her ways pretty well; and I can vouch for her Ladyship never wishing to do an unnatural or a cruel act by any one, let alone her own children."

"Yes, you are just one of the same pack. I might have saved myself the trouble of talking to you, and have been well aware that you would turn upon me like the rest. I am a miserable girl, with not a friend in this house!"

"I fear, Miss Car, that you are rather an ungrateful girl, considering how many friends you have, and all so inclined to be kind to you. But I must go, for I have plenty to do, and the straw-hat woman is waiting."

"No, don't go this minute. Now, Nelson, dear old Nelson, just listen to me. Mamma





is really cruel. Do you know she has desired me to write a letter of refusal to this man? and she will not assist me, and I cannot do it. I write such bad letters, and he is such a particular old prig. I do not like to expose myself to him. He thinks me a piece of perfection now, and I daresay fancies I do everything well; and, Nelson, I don't know what to say. By the by, perhaps you can help me?"

"I, Miss Car? I don't know how to refuse gentlemen, particularly old men; I never did such a thing in my life."

"Oh, Nelson," said Car, now bursting out into one of her merry laughs, though the tears were still wet on her cheeks, "I am sure you have. Now just recollect; -was there not a dismal, worthy old cheesemonger on Holborn Hill, whom you refused just before you came here to nurse me?"

"Miss Caroline, Miss Caroline, what are





you dreaming about? I refuse an old cheesemonger! I don't believe I ever spoke to one, as I can remember, in my life, except in the way of business."

"Well," persisted Car, "would not that have been in the way of business, nursey? I am sure I think this offer of mine, business, and a very bad business indeed. Now tell me the truth, for it is of great importance that I should know, what did you say to the old gentleman ?"

Mrs. Nelson looked quite alarmed.

"My dear, what is the matter with you, talking such nonsense? I never had an offer from an old cheesemonger. If I had, maybe I should have been, perhaps, too glad to have accepted it,-I, at that moment in such a poor plight, a widow with a baby, no money, no friends, and no home, till I was so blessed as to find home and friends under your kind parents' roof."





"Yes, and a sweet little baby to nurse, who has grown up to be such a comfort to you all," Car added, still laughing.





Yes, you were a sweet pretty baby, Miss Caroline, and I loved you dearly, and still, though you do sadly vex me, I must always continue to do so. But oh, my dear child, you give me no end of heartaches, both on your own account and all the others'."

"Oh, nursey," said the girl, in a sweet coaxing tone of voice, whilst she caressed Mrs. Nelson, for, with all her grievous faults, she could be, or seemed to be, affectionate to those she loved, and her fostermother had, perhaps, as large a place in her heart as any one save her father, "I know I am a naughty girl, but really I cannot help it; I suppose it is my nature, and I am doomed to be bad."

"Oh, pray do not talk in that way, child," exclaimed the nurse, much distressed; "we are all by nature sinful, but you know——————





"Oh, stop, stop," cried Car, "I am in no mood for a sermon this morning, and I know exactly every word you are going to say; for, dear old thing, you have said the same a hundred times at least before. And, really, you must assist me with this letter. Now then tell me, suppose the dismal old cheesemonger had asked you, what would you have said if you did not choose to have him?'

"But, Miss Caroline, I cannot suppose any such stuff and nonsense, and don't know about anything of that sort. When my poor husband asked me to marry him, and he was the only person who ever did so, I just said 'Yes,' and there was an end of it."

"Well, but you must assist me," said Car, sitting down to the writing-table and preparing to write. "Now I will begin," and she scrawled, "Dear Lord Sinclair."

"Lord Sinclair?" Mrs. Nelson exclaimed, quite aghast, "Lord Sinclair? you don't





mean it? what!- that fine-looking gentleman, who seems so good and pleasant, whom I have seen here when I brought the children down. Not that Lord Sinclair, I am sure?"

"Yes, just that Lord Sinclair," persisted Car, half amused and half provoked.

The nurse stood speechless and pale with dismay.

"And you call him old, and ugly, and dismal-that man, whom any woman on earth ought to be proud to marry; so rich and noble too; and, what is better, who bears such a character! Well," she added, waxing very wroth, "I don't wonder at your poor mamma's vexation; and you, whom I saw riding in the park with him, he close by your side, and you making so much of him. Oh, fie, fie, Miss Caroline!—I've no patience any longer with you."

And so saying, she hurried out of the





room; and when she had got rid of the straw-hat woman, and put the baby to sleep, she sat down to have a good cry.

"Oh, that girl, that girl, she'll break all our hearts!" was the burden of her song.

Car was thus left alone with her letter. Many a blotted and smeared sheet was scribbled over, tears of vexation dropping upon the writing. At last the following words were produced with the aid of a dictionary:



"Dear Lord Sinclair,



"I am very sorry, but I find on reflection that I cannot accept your kind offer, though I feel very much obliged by it. I really have no wish to marry. Pray forgive me, if you think I have in any way



done wrong,

"And believe me,

"Truly yours,

"CAROLINE EVERSFIELD."





With the deepest groan of relief, after having read the common-place production for the last time, she placed it in an envelope, and then ringing the bell, desired the servant to send it directly.

"Yes," she murmured, "it shall go at once, or there is no saying what may happen, they all seem in such a state of frenzy upon the subject. Heigho, what a bore all this is! A pretty life I shall lead; quite enough to make me cut my throat, and that poor dear boy, Lawless, what will he do? Oh, Albert," she sobbed forth, as her brother, the very juvenile guardsman, entered the room, "I am so miserable."

"What's the row now?" inquired the youth.







Oh, Albert, mamma is so ill-natured, so unkind! I am to be shut up till papa returns, just because I have refused to marry that horrid Lord Sinclair."





"And more fool you!" was the consoling answer; "the best match in London, and a brick of a fellow into the bargain. I don't wonder mamma is angry."

Again the noisy weeping commenced, mingled with affronting. speeches aimed at the offending brother. "Everybody

against her!" she cried, passionately and vehemently; her brother, her mother, her nurse, all alike!-including poor Lord Sinclair, were mingled in the general abuse.





Car was good-tempered enough in a general way, her feelings were not sufficiently sensitive to cause her to be easily touched but rouse them by some unusual means, and then a sudden blaze would flash forth of fearful, startling, unfeminine signifiHer brother, strong in the early importance of his manhood, his profession, his independence, cared little for this ebullition, till words spoken disparagingly of his



cance.





mother fell



upon his ear, his mother, whom



he loved so dearly.



Then in his turn he became irritated beyond control, ordered his sister to hold her tongue, and not presume to speak thus of her mother.







"I see what you are at now," he said,

you want to play the old game with Lawless. I can only tell you, I for one am thoroughly ashamed of you and your ways;" and thus saying, he left the room, rushing hurriedly upstairs to find Lady Julia, in order to vent his anger against his sister, and to assure her of his mighty protection and preservation from the airs and impertinence of that most odious and unmanageable of girls.

"You know, mother, that I stand in the place of my father when he is away, and I shall take care to show that I am master here in his absence."





Lady Julia tenderly kissed her son, whose fair young face certainly did not

exhibit the semblance of a very formidable champion; but his affection at that moment was very soothing to her heart.





CHAPTER XIX.



THE London season was nearly over, and the Eversfields were preparing to go into the country. Sir Hector had lately come into possession, by the death of his father, of a place in A-shire. The children, governess, and nurses, with the exception of Mrs. Nelson and the youngest boy, were already despatched to Everslee; Lady Julia and Sir Hector, with their eldest daughter, having been long engaged to stay at several country houses before returning to their home.

Unfortunate Lady Julia! how she hated





the fatigue, expense, and gêne of these visits! and how she envied the young ones, and longed to be included in the party, when they set off so merrily on a fine summer's morning, leaving her so exhausted after her troublous spring, alone with the restless spirit Car!

Yes, let no mothers consider themselves over-burthened by the troubles of nurseries and school-rooms; rather let them sigh over every discarded frock, and every tuck let out in the dress of their girls; every change from frock to jacket, jacket to tail-coat, in their boys, in fact, every sign and symbol savouring of emancipation from the gentle cares of their infancy.

It is really true that the bread-and-butter time is the halcyon period of a mother's life; before the cup of almost unmixed pride and pleasure in the possession of her children, is mingled with anxieties impos





sible to remove or surmount- -cares consequent upon advancing maturity.

And Lady Julia's was a very divided heart: with little ones to engross her thoughts, and the requirements of those who were growing up; their maturer ages necessarily bringing forward graver duties and responsibilities. How she panted, as we have said, to be in the country, for ever so short a breathing-time, without the constant irritating anxiety of poor Car! But it could not be; although, indeed, Lady Julia was looking so ill and worn that Nurse Nelson, as a very privileged person in the establishment did venture to say to the General

"Really, Sir Hector, my lady looks very delicate; do not you think this visiting about will be too much for her? It would have been better had she gone quietly into the country with us."





Sir Hector looked annoyed.



"She does look ill, certainly, Nelson," he answered; "but what am I to do about Car? She would not like to give up Westover Castle, and all the other visits; and I should be afraid to undertake the girl without her mother. The fact is, I really cannot manage that restless spirit; and, strange to say, Lady Julia, gentle as she is, has far more control over her daughter than I have."

"There's the pity, Sir Hector. The fact is, you have always spoilt Miss Car. Surely, she is old enough, and ought to be wise enough, to know how to conduct herself by this time."

Sir Hector only shrugged his shoulders and shook his head, as much as to say, "But she is not."



It had been a stormy time since Car's





refusal of Lord Sinclair. Her father, on his return, had been seriously displeased; her heartless conduct towards a man so superior to herself in every way, her drawing him on merely for the amusement of refusing him, had filled him with disgust.

She had really been in disgrace with every one. And the gentle Geraldine, who was returning to her school in Paris, was distressed to leave her usually joyous, overbearing sister,—always the first and foremost in the house, her voice and laughter ringing on every ear,—for the first time in her life, subdued and crest-fallen; her father, even, scarcely noticing her.

Geraldine Eversfield was, indeed, the very reverse of her elder sister in every respect. No positive beauty characterised the pale face and unpretending features of this second Miss Eversfield; her appearance was only distinguished by the amiability of her





expression and her gentle retiring manners. How Lady Julia loved this young daughter, who had been to her a constant source of comfort and consolation, her right hand in every matter in which she could assist her mother; so kind to the little ones, so affectionate and attentive to herself, not a selfish feeling discernible in her nature! But she was growing fast towards the dreaded period when she also must make her début in the gay world, and Lady Julia thought with deep distress of her sister's hitherto objectionable career; not that she doubted her gentle child, but it had really come to this state of things, that, under the present circumstances, it would be disadvantageous to the girl to see such glaring examples of want of retenue constantly before her eyes, and to hear so much that was unfit for the innocent Geraldine's ears.

When the General, after leaving Geral





dine, returned from Paris, he found his wife certainly in no state to accompany him to the gay country house, where every kind of festivity was to take place, and where she must dress and exert herself from morning till night.

Car had been unusually subdued and quiet during the General's absence; she had been in some degree sobered by the disgrace into which she had fallen. Mrs. Nelson had spoken kindly, but severely, to her; and no one exercised so much influence over the wayward girl as her fostermother, who was a sensible, superior woman, loving her nursling with the most maternal affection,-every word she uttered coming straight from her tender, honest heart.

"Oh! to think you were once such a sweet, innocent little baby!" she would sometimes exclaim.

“And what am I now, nurse?" Car asked





one day as she sat at her feet, disconsolately leaning her head upon her knee.

"What are you? Oh, Miss Car, you know well enough what you are," was the response.

"Yes, tell me the truth; you may just let it all out, and abuse me right and left as you please."

"Oh, my child, I don't want to abuse you, I am sure; you know I would give my right hand to do you good to make you what you ought to be-a comfort to your dear papa and mamma, instead of seeing you, whom we used to be proud as well as fond of, only a trouble and distress to them; and oh, Miss Caroline, your poor dear





"What of her?" exclaimed Car, suddenly raising her face.

"What of her, child?" answered the nurse, severely, "why, have you not seen her to-day; don't you know how ill she looks?





-quite worn out, requiring the attentions of an affectionate daughter; and there she is alone. All the other children gone into the country, where I should also be if that dear child had not been so ill," pointing to a cot where the baby lay.

"Alone; no, my place has been filled all day by one she loves far better than me— that conceited chit, Albert, who takes upon himself all the airs and graces of a man; even presumes to lecture me. It is all very fine parents' talking about having no favourites; I am sure that is not the case with mine; for instance, Geraldine and Albert, -mamma does not consider me worthy to be called their sister."

"Oh, fie, fie, Miss Caroline!" reproved the



nurse.



"Yes, it is quite true, Nelson," was the indignant rejoinder; " and I can tell you that several times to-day I went into





mamma's room, and there sat that pompous young brother of mine, looking daggers at me every time I approached her, he pretending to act the sick-nurse. And once I found him-affected fellow !-holding mamma's hand in his."

"Dear boy!" exclaimed Mrs. Nelson, "just like him; he always was a tenderhearted child—so fond of his mamma."

"A stupid milksop!— not like a man,” Car persisted, waxing ireful.

"I beg your pardon, Miss Caroline," interrupted the nurse, indignantly; "I have lived many years longer in the world than you can count, and of one thing I am quite sure, that the bravest and the best of men have always been those who have the softest hearts towards their mothers, and, indeed, towards all who are weaker than themselves, and require their support and kindness; only cowards and bullies are unkind to women,





particularly their own mothers.

Yes, dear boy!-you will see that he is no milksop, but a true son of his father; and when he is called upon to show his manhood, he will prove as fearless a soldier, as noble a man, as the General has been before him. Mr. Albert



a milksop, indeed!"



"Oh, yes, you can take everybody's part but mine. I, of course, am the black sheep of the family, just because I have good spirits and enjoy fun, and because I do not choose to marry a prig of a man I could never like. Who would expect me, young as I am, to turn into a demure grand lady, and play at propriety till I became a dried-up mummy, no longer the merry, light-hearted Car Eversfield? No, Madam Nelson, in spite of all the gloomy looks and cold words which are for ever cast upon me from every direction, I can just tell you, for once and for ever, that I intend to enjoy life whilst I can. I am sorry to see mamma look ill, and I am still





more sorry to see papa frown upon me, for really, I am very fond of the dear old fellow."

"Oh, Miss Caroline, Miss Caroline!" groaned the nurse, raising her hands in horror.





"Yes, don't interrupt me, you old goose! --and, to finish what I was saying, in spite of everything bothering, and they do worry me past endurance, -I intend to take my own way; depend upon it, I shall do very well and take good care of myself. Lord Sinclair will keep,- he will do very well for Geraldine-just suit her demure ways,and I must warn you that it's no use trying to alter me. No, it's just lost labour to endeavour to make a good woman of me. By the by, they had better try the experiment of a reformatory if everything else fails, though I question whether that, even, would succeed in reforming me; no, depend upon it, dear nursey, I am a doomed one."





Then raising her head from the knee on which it had been resting, she saw that tears were coursing one another down the cheeks of the shocked and distressed woman. Up started the wayward girl, her arms were flung round the good woman's neck, and covering her face with kisses, she exclaimed, “You foolish old darling, to take every word I say for earnest," as Mrs. Nelson endeavoured to disengage herself from Car's embrace. "I am only in fun."

"Such things are inexcusable to say even in fun; such light talk amounts, indeed, to downright wickedness," was Mrs. Nelson's remark, as, rising to go to the child who was now awake and crying, she determinately extricated herself from Car's pertinacious caresses, and walked, with sternness upon her brow, to the crib at the other side of the



room.





CHAPTER XX.



LADY JULIA, as well as the baby, became too ill for her to think of putting the visiting plan into execution. The medical man decidedly forbade it. "All that her Ladyship can do," he said, "is to go quietly into the country, and there remain and take care of herself, for she is in a very exhausted state; and as for the child," and he shrugged his shoulders, "Mrs. Nelson will be able to manage him. I fear he will be a delicate plant to rear."

Sir Hector would most gladly have given up all these visits and accompanied his wife to Everslee, but Lady Julia implored him, at least, to take Car to Westover Castle.





"It will be a dreadful disappointment to her," she urged; "and Lady Westover will, I am sure, look after her in some measure. Lady Millicent, though a lively girl, has not, I think, any guile in her; and, dear Hector," the invalid added sadly, "I believe her absence, poor child, will be beneficial to me. I require repose of mind, which I cannot have whilst she is with me. It is very sad, very dreadful, to be obliged to say anything so harsh of one's own daughter, but it has come to this at last. I suppose it is my state of health that renders me thus sensitive, but I live in constant terror of that girl doing something to annoy me; and my nerves are so irritable that, no doubt, I magnify everything she says and does, far beyond what really is meant. It will be better for her, as well as for me, that we should be separated for a short time."

Sir Hector acquiesced, as he generally did,





in every wish of his wife's, and it was settled that, as soon as Lady Julia was strong enough to travel, she should proceed to Everslee, and Car and himself to Westover Castle; these projects, however, did not take place till the second week in August.

Car received this intelligence, given to her by the General, with inward exultation: it was just what she wanted. However, she restrained all demonstration of satisfaction, and listened very demurely whilst her father severely admonished her as to what her conduct must be whilst under his sole charge.

He certainly had been far less indulgent lately towards this daughter, whom he really so fondly loved, not being able to forgive the trouble and distress she was constantly causing her mother. The General was ever endeavouring to be austere and cold in his manner towards this hitherto petted girl, but





the attempt generally proved a failure;-Car knew too well how to manage him.

A well-timed flood of tears stopping Iwith the tenderest kisses the mouth from which was about to proceed words of severe import soon defeated the General; but still his grave, sad countenance, though it softened under her resistless influence, did not now beam upon her with its wonted bright



ness.



His heart was heavy, both on her account and that of his wife. But still he thought, "Poor girl, what is to be done about her I do not know; perhaps when she is older her wild ways will tame down. I cannot believe that there is any real harm in her; and lately, how much more quiet she has been! Certainly, her manner has been more subdued, and she would, I am sure, be attentive to her mother, if my dear wife would allow her to be more with her; but the very presence of the girl seems to agitate her, and





to bring that flush of weakness into her face; and, certainly, Car is wonderfully awkward in a sick-room. It is extraordinary to see the difference between her and Albert in that respect; he, so gentle and handy; she always coming in like a whirlwind, upsetting everything before her, speaking in her usual tone of voice, not remembering that, even her clear musical tones are all too loud for the sensitive ear of an invalid; and yet," and the father sighed painfully, "with all her faults she is really such a pet of mine."

We are not to imagine that the dull weeks that elapsed before Car Eversfield left London were passed without excitement and amusement to herself. No! although evening gaieties were at an end, she was playing a game which answered every purpose pour le moment.

She must have walking exercise, she





piteously told her father; and, of course, she could not take it during the later part of the day, now the governess and her sisters were away, and he was so very busy;—so she proposed that she should get up very early and walk in the park with Louise, her French maid nobody could object to that, she thought.

And the General, thinking no evil, let



her go.



Our readers may wonder how this young lady managed to eke out the very lengthened time which passed before she returned every morning, looking so bright and fresh from her walk, to join her father at breakfast.

"Well, indeed, Miss Car, you have certainly turned over a new leaf-you who used to be the last to appear downstairs. Where have you been walking this morning?" the General remarked, as he looked at his blooming daughter.





"Oh, papa, I generally contrive to get into Kensington Gardens; I have a friend there, one of the gardeners; I gave him half-a-crown, and I am always admitted, even before the usual hour for opening the gates. It is so delicious to sit under the trees with a book!"

Yes, Caroline did go to Kensington Gardens every morning, and there she lingered till the time warned her that ten o'clock was near at hand, and she must be at home to appear before her father at the breakfast-table.

Her home was close at hand, in one of the houses overlooking the park, in Bayswater, so it took but a few minutes to return. And was it only with a book that Car sat under the shade of one of those beautiful trees?

The book might be there indeed—some French novel Mam'selle Louise had contrived





to obtain for her-but it was seldom even

opened at that time. One sat by her who required every glance of those bright eyes to be cast upon himself alone.



Yes!



there might be seen, close beside her, the tall, handsome young Lawless, drinking in rich draughts of passionate love, as he gazed on his beautiful companion, that arch deceiver, who, without the slightest compunction, merely for her own amusement and to while away the tedium of her present existence, was driving the impetuous youth into a whirlpool, a dizzy round, too likely at last to precipitate him into destruction.

It was a picture a Watteau might have coveted for a subject, to behold those two young beings seated there in that beautiful spot beneath one of those unbrageous trees, the glory of all Londoners; the brilliant morning's summer sun softly tinting with its rays all around, shining upon



the





water, brightening the colour of the foliage, and bringing forth from the dewy turf the fragrant odours of vegetation.

Yes, there they sat; the girl with her straw hat removed and thrown carelessly at her feet, displaying fully that bewitching face-bewitchingly dangerous indeed!—her light muslin dress, so gracefully draping her faultless form, her eyes so varying in expression, now lifted up, animated with lively glee, and then again assuming an aspect of languid softness, still more dangerous to the unfortunate who gazed into their very depths with earnestness amounting to agony.

And the young man, what a fine specimen he was of an Englishman in early youth! or rather, we ought to say, one bred up in England, for the blood of our sister countries flowed in his veins,-his Irish nature no doubt preponderating, if we may





judge by the rash impulsive feelings which characterised his every action.

But he was quite the man to lay hold of the heart of an unsophisticated girl-a hero of romance, we might have supposed, to all soft maidens' hearts. And Car Eversfield did think him very handsome, and liked to meet him, to look at him, to talk to him, to hear him pour forth his whole soul to her; indeed, even her unimpressible heart throbbed often wildly whilst under the spell of his gaze. It excited her not a little, and flattered too her vanity,-sent her home with many feelings, brightening her countenance: but not one atom of genuine bonâ fide love was mingled in these sensations.

"It is very pleasant to meet the handsome fellow," she would soliloquise, "and I like it very much, and must go on with it whilst I am thus moped up, for I should die of the dumps if I did not have this





little amusement; but, upon my word, I had better take care, for I cannot marry him. I know perfectly that I should soon get dead sick of him, in spite of his handsome face. And," she continued, "the more I think of it, the more certain am I that I could not marry; that is to say, if I am expected to behave myself afterwards; but this boy-for I can scarcely fancy him a man, he looks so fair and young-will insist upon talking of marriage, and how I shall be able to say a final 'No,' I cannot imagine. I wish, to goodness, mamma were well enough to go to Everslee, and that Papa and I were off to Westover Castle; we shall miss the Brookwood races for a certainty, and I shall go mad with spite."

And thus it went on for some time, till at length one morning might have been seen under those same trees, another picture, which might well have served for a pendant





to that beautiful engraving, "The Last Appeal." But our last appeal represented a scene in which the actors were in high life, no village girl and rural Strephon.

This was their last interview under the trees in Kensington Gardens, for Car was to leave London the next day with her father for Westover Castle.

"Miss Eversfield! -beautiful Caroline!" exclaimed the enamoured youth, as she rose to depart, "for the hundredth time I implore you to give me a final answermay I hope to call you my own?— my wife?"

"Oh, Norman Lawless," she petulantly replied, "why will you continue to torment me by that ceaseless question?—I have told you a thousand times that I have no intention of marrying at present."

"And do you then not love me?" he vehemently cried. "And after all that has





passed between us, Caroline, do you think I can exist, after these weeks of bliss, these daily meetings, all those joyful moments in which I have felt so blest-judging by your looks, your words, that our love was mutual-now to be thus discarded, without one hope left, upon which to exist!"

And with almost abject entreaty, this young man, so strong in frame, so generally undaunted in the fierce expression of his handsome countenance, cowered beneath the influence of that young girl, whilst he seized her hands, imploring her not to leave him thus in despairing wretchedness.

Car really felt rather sorry for him, as she turned her head away, whilst the young lover still held her hands; but even in that brief moment the old ideas floated through her mind.

"What am I to do? If I say I will marry him, it is all up with me; in no time I





over.



shall be chained for life, and all my fun But I do like him; and I have not the heart quite to dash his hopes for ever; and I certainly have given him an awful deal of encouragement."

And the thought of how much it had really been, made her cheek, even, burn with blushes.

"Well, Caroline," again spoke Lawless, "why this silence ?-have you no word of hope to give me?"

Again the girl paused, and thus she thought, as now she struggled to extricate her hands from his firm grasp —





"I suppose that I cannot get off; oh, what a fool I have been! but I will not speak the decisive word—no, I cannot."

"I will not let you go until you decide my fate," Lawless said, now sternly, his countenance assuming its natural expression of defiance; am I to believe that, after





all that has passed between us, you mean positively to refuse me?"

"Oh, no, no, Lawless!" Car answered, beginning to feel rather frightened, "only wait a very short time, and then " "You will accept me for your husband?" Lawless interrupted. "Answer this simple question ere we part."

"We shall meet at Brookwood, and there all shall be settled."

And Car turned upon her agitated and now incensed lover, one of those glances which she knew were all-conquering; and the parting was in no ways like that of lovers with hearts so totally dissimilar; -one, with all its faults, true to the passionate love which filled it; the other, void of every feeling save that of selfindulgence, vanity, and the momentary gratification of its senses.





"Oh, what tiger cats those light men are!" Car mused, as she hurried home. "I remember there is some old rhyme which says

"With a white man trust not your life;'



and, upon my word, that boy quite frightens me sometimes, he looks so wild and mad."




CHAPTER XXI.



SIR HECTOR and his daughter went to Westover, he, poor man, low and depressed about his wife, who had left London the same morning, with the sick child still much of an invalid, and also dreading the task he had imposed upon himself, that of being his troublesome Car's sole guardian during their visit to this gay country house.

She was in mad spirits, much to the disgust of Mrs. Nelson, who, full of sorrowful forebodings, both for her lady and the child, was busy packing, when Car as usual bounced into the nursery.





"Well, old woman, so we shall be off at last, and hurrah! I say. But I should like to know why I am to have that formal old maid Fenton to go with me instead of Louise? She does not understand dressing my hair half as well, and, besides, I have a personal dislike to her. I suppose, therefore, she is to be in the capacity of keeper."

"Perhaps so, Miss Caroline," was the



answer.



"You may as well advise her not to meddle with me; or, just to torment the piece of propriety, I'll lead her a pretty dance. I don't much care, only it is a bore, when one looks in the glass, to see a brown, wrinkled, dismal old face, pitted with the small-pox, brushing one's hair, instead of a young, merry, laughing one, and to hear solemn English spoken when one asks a question, in the place of a volley of chitchat poured forth in the purest Parisian





accent. Louise is delicious when one is staying in a large country-house. She tells one a little of everything, and poor little creature, she is so disappointed."

"No doubt, Miss Caroline," was the supercilious reply.

"Oh, I see you are in a bad humour, and no mistake, Madam Nelson."

"I am in a very sorrowful humour, Miss Eversfield, and I wonder you are quite so gay when your mamma is so ill, and the poor baby in such a failing state. Doctor L. thinks he cannot be reared."

Car looked a little grave.

"I am very sorry, Nursey," she said, "but I hope country air will do them both good. Doctor L. always croaks. I daresay little Henry will live to be as great a bully as any of the rest."

The nurse shook her head.

"I hope, my dear, you will not add to





your mamma's troubles by vexing her by your conduct. Pray be steady while you are away; your poor papa, I can tell you, is quite nervous at the idea of having the sole charge of you."

Car burst into one of her fits of laughter.

"Upon my word, it amuses me. I believe I am considered in the light of some wild animal in a menagerie, which terrifies every one, even its keepers; but I tell you what, -for the sake of the timid souls about me, I really think I will marry after all, and rid them of the plague of me.'

"Oh, don't think, my dear, they want you to marry merely to get rid of you! No, indeed, you misjudge the best of parents; but should you meet with a husband with whom you could live happily,- and Miss Car," Nelson added severely, "respectably, it would be best for all parties."

"Respectably! Ha! ha! Oh, Nursey,





that is quite in your cheesemonger's line. Respectably! I hardly know the meaning of the word."





Oh, I will tell you what it is, Miss Caroline. Respectably means







Oh, hold your tongue, you most tiresome of old creatures," cried Car, putting both her hands to her ears. "I don't want to hear you prose about what I shall never be, nor ever wish to be."

Mrs. Nelson turned up her eyes and shook her head, sighing hopelessly.

"If I marry," the girl continued, "it will not, I can tell you, be to please myself. I shall hate and detest selling myself just to please others, and upon my word, I don't think, when it comes to the scratch, I shall ever be able to do it. So good night, you crossest of the cross!"

And now Caroline found herself at length on the road to Westover Castle. It saddened





her father still more as he, with his heavy heart, travelled with her into Sussex, that not a trace of feeling did she evince at having just parted from her mother and the little brother, whose death-like countenance gave little hope of final recovery.

Albert, the boy guardsman, had taken a daughter's place towards his mother, and obtained a short leave of absence to escort her to Everslee, and it was with real comfort the General placed his wife under his charge.

The father, wholly absorbed in meditation, scarcely looked at or heeded his daughter, for some time after they were seated in the railway carriage, nor had he remarked that, whilst on the platform of the terminus, she had her own business to transact.

In a sharp tone of voice, Car said to the grave-looking maid, who, according to instructions given to her from home, was standing close to her side,





"Fenton, in the name of patience, why don't you go and look after the luggage; in all this confusion, that stupid Thomas will be sure to make some blunder. I shall not at all like to have no dress to-night for dinner, in consequence of my trunk having been put into some wrong place; and besides, I don't want you to stand here guarding me, as if I were a child, or an idiot."

Fenton was obliged to obey. And as she departed a young officer rapidly advanced. "I could not resist coming here to have one more glimpse of you, Caroline," he exclaimed in an agitated tone of voice, “and again to remind you of your promise; remember, at the Brookwood races I am to have your final answer, and oh! for mercy's sake, let it be a favourable one, dearest Caroline." And her hand was seized and pressed with genuine fervour.

"Yes, yes," she hastily replied, every





moment expecting her father's return. "But, Mr. Lawless, I must tell you, it will not be given till the last day of the races; I have a particular reason that so it shall be." "Yes," she thought, "let me put it off till the very last moment, and enjoy myself whilst I may."

"You are as cruel as you are beautiful," the young man replied, as he gazed on the dazzling face before him.

"This is my final resolve, however," Car added pettishly, "and now pray go. I see my father coming."

Lawless stepped aside, and soon he beheld his insidious charmer whirling off rapidly from his sight. She had with mocking kindness put her head out of the window, in order that the unfortunate youth might carry away with him still more of the subtle poison derived from the destroying passion, which was undermining every healthful spring of his soul.





How brilliant was the countenance of the girl, when Sir Hector at last looked upon her! the face so flushed, heightening the carnation on her cheek, her eyes flashing with an expression which the father's heart trembled to observe.

Now it was not that of the careless lighthearted glee with which they were wont to sparkle so merrily; no, it seemed to him, that some fiercer feeling than usual was agitating her mind. There was a smile upon her lips, but it was one which partook of scorn and defiance, assimilating with the expression of the lustrous eyes.

"Car, what are you thinking about?" the General at length asked, after he had contemplated his daughter for a for a brief



space.



Car started, and then blushed crimson. "Thinking of, Papa," she said, "thinking of? Why, a thousand things. Why do you want to know?"





"Only because I have been watching your countenance, and I never before remember seeing it look as it has done for the last ten minutes. My madcap Car seemed to be coming out in quite a new character; instead of a light-hearted, thoughtless Bacchante, you looked as if you were for the first time in your life reflecting seriously, and upon no peaceful subject, most certainly."

Car laughed her usual light laugh. "Pray Papa don't liken me to a Bacchante, it sounds so very horrible. I who never drink any wine but champagne, when I can get it; it just shows what a bad opinion you must have of my looks and tastes. A Bacchante indeed!"

The General laughed. "Well Car, what was it that transformed you at that moment into a fierce Gulnare? A penny for your thoughts, my child."

"I was thinking that I must, as Nelson says, 'turn over a new leaf,' and give up





enacting the Bacchante, as you call me! Heigho! it will be a great bore, for I have had such fun."

No more could be said upon the subject, as they had just stopped at a station, and passengers were climbing into the carriage, some of whom proved to be acquaintances, who were also en route for Westover Castle.

With what light-hearted glee Car Eversfield jumped out of the carriage which had met them at the station, when it stopped before the door of the stately mansion!

In the hall she was informed that Lady Millicent requested that Miss Eversfield should be at once conducted to her Ladyship's dressing room, as she had just returned from a long ride. And away went Car, flying up the wide staircase, pursued more leisurely by the groom of the chambers, who could imagine no possible reason for such unwonted haste.





And soon noisy greetings resounded through the pretty sanctum of Lady Milli



cent.





"Oh! Milly, how glad I am to find myself here at last!" Car exclaimed, as she hugged and kissed her friend, who, having just thrown off her riding-habit, had replaced it by a dressing-gown, — her hair tucked under a net displaying a face not very handsome, but with bold goodnature in its expression. With reciprocal warmth she welcomed her favourite gossip, Car Eversfield.

"Such a time I have had of it since I saw you, darling Milly!" Car continued, trying to look doleful.

Yes, dear-but Car, you wicked one, did you not contrive to amuse yourself notwithstanding? However, first have some tea to refresh you, and then we will talk thirteen to the dozen, as the bakers say. We don't dine till eight, so there is plenty





of time, and Mamselle Louise need not hurry her unpacking."

"Louise, poor Louise, she is not here,” was the response, made in a tone of querulous dissatisfaction, "that is just one specimen of the manner in which I am worried. No, forsooth!-she was not thought steady enough to be my keeper! Poor little soul, I left her sobbing her heart out with disappointment. That grim old maid of mamma's, whom I never could endure, has been sent with me, no doubt with all sorts of injunctions to watch me narrowly. I'll try to lead her a dance, and drive her half-mad if possible."

"And no doubt you will succeed, you incorrigible creature," laughed Lady Millicent; but you may give her rest just for one night, for we shall be quite alone to-day, excepting the few dull people you met in the train. Our party does not begin till to-morrow, and then, Car, we shall have some of all sorts for you to try your flirting manœuvres





upon. Who of all men in the world do you think is coming?"

"Not Lord Sinclair, I hope, or Norman Lawless. I really must have a little rest from them?" Car demanded eagerly and in real alarm.

"Oh no, but the hero you have so long been expiring to know. For some reason or another papa could not help inviting him, for mamma has been hot against it. People are beginning to think it is not the proper thing to ask him into their houses. At a dinner party in London, it does not much signify, but the intimate association of a country house is considered deteriorating to the morals of us innocent maidens.”

"Oh, I know whom, you mean," exclaimed Car with brightening eyes, "it is that man so all-powerful in every way, that all-conquering hero, both as a warrior and a ladykiller-that delightful wicked one, Lord Glendinnon."





"Yes, Car, so I advise you to take care. Mamma will look sharp after you, I must warn you; Lady Julia has placed you as solemnly in her hands as if_”

"Oh please don't talk of mamma's absurdities!" exclaimed the undutiful daughter; "upon my word," she continued, her eyes now sparkling with anger, "they will drive me into doing something outrageous, by making mountains into mole-hills, talking of me in that manner to people; but, Milly," and her countenance again changed, "I really have got into a scrape, and how to get out of it without getting deeper than ever into the mire, I have no idea."

"What's the matter now?" Lady Millicent inquired.

"Well, you see, for the last month London has been detestable to me; I have





and papa both grumpy and out of spiritsI should have regularly died of it had it not





been for a little diversion I got up with young Lawless. You know, my dear, that when men once take to smoking they can't live without their cigar. It is the same with flirting, —if a girl ever takes to flirting she cannot exist without it, it becomes meat and drink to the unfortunate individual; and the fact is, in my weariness and want of anything else to do, just in the same way as a man would treble his number of cigars when suffering under a fit of ennui, I indulged in an unusual fit of flirting."

"Under those circumstances it must have been indeed something tremendous," said Lady Millicent laughing, "considering what I have already witnessed."

"It was tremendous," Car continued solemnly, "and I own to being a great fool to have gone as far as I did, for I really believe, darling," and she began to whimper, "that I shall be obliged after all to marry





that tiresome man, for I have all but promised to do the horrible thing; and how to get out of the scrape I cannot imagine, for I have discovered that he is one who will stand no nonsense, and I have been-so foolish."

"Well, never mind, Car," was the consoling rejoinder," the deed must be done some time or another, and Lawless is really a handsome fellow, and an excellent parti; and because you are married, I suppose you need not be miserable. Look at the young married women in London-they are far more jolly and happy than we spinsters; I believe life only begins when women marry well (and I mean by marrying well, position and money of course), and the husband is a sensible man who lets his wife take her own course, and he his own, and does not trouble her by too exigeant affection."

"Oh, but, Milly, fancy the troublesome





brats; look at Mamma with all those everlasting babies. I believe she was once upon a time beautiful, and now how wan and faded she looks! The idea of running one's head into a chance of such a horrible fate makes me shudder. And after all, I believe I do possess some very, very faint glimmering of a conscience, for knowing myself so perfectly as I do, and having had well dinned in my ears many virtuous precepts, I think perhaps I had better wait till I am older and can behave myself, which now I am quite certain that I could never do. I feel convinced that I should weary of that youth in a week, and then a pretty life for him, poor fellow, and upon my word I like him too much to wish him such a misfortune as a wife such as I should prove."







Bravo, bravo!" again laughed Lady Millicent, clapping her hands, "upon my

word, Miss Caroline, you have become quite





make so



eloquent. I have never heard you long or so moral a speech since I have had the pleasure of your acquaintance. Well, my advice to you is to swallow with as few wry faces as possible this bitter pill called Matrimony (a necessary evil, my dear), and try to make the best of it, leaving to chance not to be too bountifully rewarded by a supply of olive branches. As for me, I shall take matrimony just as coolly as I have done all the successive stages of life, considering it in the usual routine of existence. I have already passed through several acts of my drama,-childhood, girlhood, and soon the curtain will draw up, and the last act will commence,-I shall be a married woman, I see it all looming not far distant. But I care not; I don't trouble my head about it. I know it must be some of these days, so leave it all to wiser heads than mine to arrange."





"Ah! but you are far wiser than I am," sighed Car.



เ



"Perhaps so, and perhaps not quite so cold-blooded as you, fair Caroline," Lady Millicent replied, "and my advice to you, Car, is to give up some of your very foolish ways, and strike while the iron's hot.' You were a goose to lose an excellent chance in Lord Sinclair; but young Lawless is quite another thing; with all that hot Irish blood in his veins, he is charming and original. Heigho! I wish he had taken a fancy to me."

"Do you really?" Car asked, rather impressed by her friend's words.

"Yes I do, although I warn you that he is not really quite the man he generally appears. One would imagine him a careless, joyous, lighthearted being, every quality of his mind appearing on the surface. But you know I am a bit of a physiognomist and phrenologist, and I have studied both





His



in him as well as I was able without manipulating his head, and of one thing I am perfectly sure, that he will be an awkward customer to deal with, if thwarted. bump of firmness rises conspicuously even amidst those clustering curls, and this, with but a small amount of conscientiousness and a preponderance of the basilar regions, as they are phrenologically termed, is not likely to render him a very easy subject to manage.

Car put her hands to her ears.

"Oh, Milly, don't talk in that incomprehensible manner; I don't care anything about phrenology—that hard name is as much as I can pronounce-as for understanding anything about it, I might just as well try to speak Hebrew. Norman Lawless's head always appeared to me a handsome one, but with all these horrible things upon it I shall never like to look at it again."





Millicent laughed heartily.

"Oh, Car, what a little goose you are! I can feel some very dangerous ones here too," placing her hand on the small head, and then she added, "and the absence of many most valuable to a woman."

The dressing-bell rang.

"Oh, good gracious!” cried Car, starting up, "that reminds me of horrid Fenton. What a bore she will be, instead of having my pretty little Louise to amuse and make me die with laughing at her little historiettes, as she calls them! I'll try to torment the old woman in every way, give a scream every time she puts a pin into my hair, and make her so nervous that she will be

scarcely able to fasten my dress."

"What a girl that is!" mused Lady Millicent, whilst she sat before the glass undergoing the process of having her own hair arranged; "such a fool - scarcely a grain of sense in her head and yet I like her,





and feel amused and interested in her senseless ways. And really I am curious to know how it will all end; upon my word, she had better pull up in time and in time and marry, for I see plainly that she will be getting into some serious scrape. Even I, who never professed to have a heart, who have been, I am perfectly aware, wholly worldly, feel sometimes startled at her total want of affection and principle. How little she cares how she treats the feelings of men, so she can only gain, what she seems alone to exist for admiration and adulation; for never does she in the slightest degree respond to the ardent love which is offered her. No, I believe she is as passionless as she is false; and yet what a lovely-looking creature she is. I don't wonder at all the men being wild about her. Yes, it will be really an excitement to watch the finale of her flirting career, and I will stand by her to the last,





although Northland implored me to drop her. What would he have thought had he heard me talk so lightly with her? What will Car say when she hears I am actually



engaged.





CHAPTER XXII.



LADY MILLICENT, when she had finished her toilette, repaired to Car's room to escort her down stairs.

What a scene of confusion met her eyes! The young lady had evidently carried out in full her intention of worrying the poor lady's maid. The contents of every drawer seemed to have been ruthlessly ransacked, and their contents flung upon the floor; the bed was covered with artificial flowers, wreaths, and bouquets of all hues and kinds, and now Car was vehemently gesticulating, whilst the poor woman, with a heated face and trembling hands, was lacing up the tight-fitting bodice of the impatient girl.





"Oh, Millicent, I dare say I am late, but it is not my fault; how can I possibly dress with a maid who knows nothing on earth. about my ways? I never wear artificial flowers when I am in the country; Louise always makes me the loveliest things for my head; the idea of asking me to put on one of these horrid things!"

"I had not time, you know, to-day, to make up anything, Miss Eversfield. Tomorrow you shall have a wreath," replied Fenton.

"You make up a wreath! Thank you, I would rather be excused wearing anything of your making."

"I made many of those you used to wear, Miss. When Louise was busy I generally made them."

"I am sure your hair is perfectly done to-night, Car; such beautifully smooth thick rolls."

"They have, however, been down several





times already I can tell you, and I dare say, at dinner you will see one of them fall and drop into my neighbour's soup. My hair feels so loose and uncomfortable. Now give me my gloves, and pocket-handkerchief, and be quick; don't you see Lady Millicent is waiting?"



And away



she flounced, and as soon as the door was closed began to laugh.

"Now haven't I paid her off properly? She'll think it no treat to come out visiting with me another time."

"No, I should think not indeed," replied Lady Millicent; "I must say I pity the poor woman from the bottom of my heart."

Car continued to laugh until they entered the grand saloon where the company had assembled for dinner. She immediately went up to Lady Westover, whom she had not yet seen, and who greeted her affectionately, and then she turned to seek Lord Westover, whom in the absence of more at





tractive sports she did not at all object to flirt with, and he, notwithstanding his sixty years and more, was always delighted to be even second best with the beautiful Caroline, whose charms he most fully appreciated.

He was standing at some distance, talking to a tall man, whose back was turned towards her. Car was instantly struck by the appearance of the stranger, though even thus imperfectly seen. He could not be any one of those guests Millicent had enumerated.

She however fearlessly advanced, longing to see the face of this stately, imposinglooking figure, and said,

"Lord Westover, you have not yet spoken to me." His Lordship was most tender in his welcome to his fair guest.

Depend upon it, the older a man becomes, the greater his admiration for youthful





beauties increases; at least so we have generally observed.

Lord Westover had taken possession of both the fair hands that were held out to him, and gazed with undisguised delight upon the bright face which looked up to his with such flattering empressement.

But Car, whilst she thus was apparently engrossed by her noble host, had managed also to cast her eyes upon the object of her curiosity, the tall man, who still stood close behind them.

Never did she appear to more advantage, for although her dress was only white muslin, enlivened by a gold band round her waist, it fitted exquisitely, displaying her beautiful figure to the fullest perfection, and her simple coiffure, glossy luxuriant hair, unencumbered by flowers, or any of the superfluous ornaments with which young ladies will disfigure themselves,





allowed the beholder to feast his eyes upon the statue-like shape and proportion of the small undecorated head.

And Car was at that moment thoroughly pleased, and that alone gave an additional charm to her face.

She saw in a moment that the stranger was gazing upon her with unmistakable admiration, and she had also instantly recognised his identity. He was the farfamed Lord Glendinnon-far-famed in many ways, besides being a military man of the highest reputation.

Having listened to many pretty complimentary speeches from Lord Westover, addressed to the now blushing girl, whose heart was already fluttering under the gaze of this hero in love and in war, who was attentively observing her, Car, seeing her father enter the room, said hastily,

"I must go and speak to Papa. Do you





know, Lord Westover, that I have been so inattentive, I have never seen him since I arrived, and I promised Mamma to take such care of him;" and she darted off, but not before her quick ear had heard some exclamations from both gentlemen, which dimpled her cheeks with exulting smiles.

"Oh, darling Pappy," she exclaimed, linking her arm in his, and looking up in his face with the most endearing expression; "how careless you must think me not to have visited you in your room, and asked about your headache; but how is it? Millicent and I had so much to say, and then the dinner-bell rang, and I had not time, for Fenton was so stupid, and I so missed Louise."

"However, I think poor Fenton has turned you out quite well enough," the father said, as he gazed with fond admiration on his beautiful child. And certainly





Car's forte must have been acting, for a most graceful tableau did she enact for the benefit of the two Lords, who were following with their eyes her every movement, as she hung about her careworn-looking father, her every look and attitude apparently emanating from the impulse of natural grace.

Dinner was announced, and she relinquished her father's arm to take that of a shy eldest son of one of the neighbouring élite. Lord Westover had told her to mind that she was to sit on his left side, the right of course being occupied by the greatest lady present, to whom, we fear, his Lordship did not give the largest portion of his attention. How could he, with such a magnet so near at hand?

And Car heard how it was that Lord Glendinnon had arrived sooner than he was expected. He had mistaken the day.

"You must take care of your heart, fair





lady," he continued, "his Lordship is considered, I can tell you, irresistible."

 Oh, no fear of me," Car answered, laughing. "It is always being dinned in my ears that I have no heart."

And at that moment her eyes turned towards the head of the table, where Lord Glendinnon was seated by Lady Westover, Sir Hector occupying the opposite place by her side. Car was almost startled on perceiving how earnestly he seemed to be regarding her.

The colour mounted to her cheeks, caused by gratified vanity—she felt at once that her conquest was certain over that fiercelooking man.







"It will be delightful," she thought,

something so new. I am so tired of the same thing over and over again with all those young Guardsmen, and the other stupid men, young and old, I have made





fools of. After all, I care not much to waste my time on boys - they are so sillybut this splendid-looking creature, neither young nor old, such a regular lion as to courage, and looking almost as fierce as any of the forest monarchs,-Oh! would it not be glorious to make him crouch at my feet for one smile ?"

And again she looked towards him, and caught another fixed gaze from his eyes, which she understood well how to return.

Alas for her young lover! no longer did this unprincipled girl feel even pity for him. Before the dinner was concluded, Lord Glendinnon and Car Eversfield, without any introduction, and at the distance of the intervening space of the top and bottom of a long table, had become perfectly acquainted with each other.

"Car," said Lady Millicent, as they walked on the terrace on leaving the dinnertable, "I am rather alarmed about you."





"Why, what is the matter now?" "I have been watching you all the time we were at dinner, and I am quite sure that it is your intention to commence a flirtation with Lord Glendinnon."

"And why not, pray?" asked Car, reddening, for Lady Millicent looked graver than usual. "He is just the man to talk and laugh with, for every one knows that he is a safe subject enough, having a wife somewhere."

"Upon my word, Car," Millicent replied, "I used to think I was very bad, but I have come to the conclusion that I am a saint and angel compared with you. Yes, you may laugh, but I must just again warn you to take care how you behave to Lord Glendinnon, who is one of the most profligate men in London. He has been for years separated from his wife, and is so notorious in his career that few people will now





invite him to their country houses. Mamma does not at all like his coming here, and will be greatly disgusted if she sees you encourage him, and I am sure the General will be much displeased. I heard him say that he certainly should not have come to Westover, had he known Lord Glendinnon had been invited, which indeed he was not he as good as asked himself, and Papa had not the presence of mind to refuse him. Mamma hates his being here."

"I am sure I am glad he did come," was Car's rejoinder. "It does one's eyes good to look at such a splendid specimen of the human race. That is what I call a man, very unlike those whey-faced youngsters I am accustomed to see."

"Yes, and by the bye remember, Car, what you have just told me about young Lawless. I consider that you are actually engaged to him, and after what has passed





and that ring on your finger, you cannot possibly get off without a pretty row."

Car, as usual when vexed, began some noisy whimperings.

"How cross you are, Milly! just like the people at home. You of all girls in the world are the last to have a right to talk in this manner! A pretty number of scrapes you have very nearly got into! No girl in London has ever been more fast than Millicent Danvers; but just because you have been so sly and have never been found out, you fancy yourself so much better than others. And I am come here to be so happy, and you are trying to make me miserable." And now she began fairly to cry.

"You had better not disfigure those mischievous eyes," said Lady Millicent, laughing, "for behold, the conquering hero is advancing. We had better turn into the flower garden, that you may have time to shake the rain-drops from the rose."





CHAPTER XXIII.



THAT same night Sir Hector called his daughter into his room, and spoke to her very seriously about Lord Glendinnon. Not that he had observed anything as yet in her conduct to give him uneasiness, for Car was rather startled by what her friend had said, and was afraid of showing any public demonstration of her determination to commence a flirtation with Lord Glendinnon, although she had not lost all her time, even this evening, for she well understood the science of by-play.

"I must just warn you, Car," her father said, “that if I see the slightest inclination





on your part to receive any attentions from Lord Glendinnon, I shall take you home immediately. Nothing will turn me from this determination. Had I known he was to have been here, I should have declined the invitation at once."

"Oh, papa! what does Lord Glendinnon signify to me?" Car exclaimed petulantly, "I shall not be the only girl in the house if he wishes to amuse himself; there are several coming to-morrow."

"I dare say, but they will probably have their mothers with them," and the General sighed, his thoughts reverting to his sick wife at home. "However, Car," he continued, more sternly than was his wont when speaking to his daughter, "I insist upon your remembering what I have said; I am perfectly in earnest."

But the next morning brought its changes. Before Car had lifted her head from





the pillow her father again appeared before her. The post had brought a letter from Portsmouth, stating that his second son Ernest, who had just gone into the navy, had met with a severe accident, and was left at the hospital at Portsmouth. He was in no danger, but the authorities had thought it expedient to inform Sir Hector of his son's



state.



to





"I shall be off immediately. If you write your mother to-day, don't mention what has happened it would only alarm her, and I hope I shall find my dear boy in no kind of danger, indeed they say the hurt he has received is of no vital importance. However I could not feel a moment's peace until I have seen him, and shall start in half an hour. Now, Car, do not add to my many anxieties, by misconducting yourself whilst I am away. Do you hear, child?"

"Yes, darling Pappy," the girl cried, start





ing up and throwing her arms round his neck—"I shall be so good-don't fear for me and I am so sorry for poor Erny."

And she looked so lovely, this young brilliant creature, in all the dishevelled carelessness of her sleeping attire, the glow of childlike sleep flushing her soft cheeks,

her dark hair, loosened from the net which usually confined it, falling on her white neck-that the doting father, as he pressed her in his arms, could not keep up any demonstration of severity.

"God bless you, my darling," he murmured as he extricated himself from her embrace," and keep you in safety. I shall be back again as soon as possible, I hope, if Erny is pretty well." And Car fell back upon her pillows, and wept, and her tears this time flowed from a softer, purer source than usual. "Poor darling papa!" she sobbed, “how much he always has to vex him. Oh, how





I wish, I wish I could be good, and not add to his vexations, but I fear I cannot; and poor Erny! he is my favourite brother-a mad-cap like myself I really will try to be sedate, and what is more to the purpose, I will stay at home to-day. I ought not to go to the races whilst the poor boy is so ill. I shall hear to-morrow, and if he is better, then I can enjoy myself. And I won't go down to breakfast. I really never was so unhappy!'





Lady Millicent found her still in bed, so changed from the brilliant Car of yesterday, her eyes, so unaccustomed to shed tears of sorrow, so red and swollen, that her friend was quite sorry for the distressed girl, and said all she could to console her.

"Poor Ernest," she said, "I know him well," though I have not seen him for a year or two. He is very like you, Car, is he not? both in mind and looks, a regular scapegrace, if I remember right."





"Yes, the best of the family," sobbed Car. "If he is exactly like you, Car, depend upon it he will do very well. The bad ones always outlive the good ones; you and Ernest will see out all the rest. But you must get up! We breakfast unusually early, to be ready for the races; the drive to Brookwood is a tedious business."

"I'm not going to the races," groaned Car. "Not going to the races! Nonsense, you silly one!"

"No indeed! it would be very unfeeling to go when my brother is so ill."

"After all," persisted Lady Millicent, "he has only had a slight crack on the head, poor boy, and if, when every middy had a fall, their sisters were to take to their beds, the world would indeed come to a pretty pass. Now, Miss Caroline, you shall just be allowed to have your breakfast up here, and then, if you please, begin to gird





your armour on. You have a good deal of business on hand to-day, remember."

Yes, Car did remember, and felt at the moment really averse to going to the races. She was as sorry for her brother as she could be for anything, and she did not feel strong enough to encounter her ardent young lover, Norman Lawless.

But she was fated to go. Lady Millicent soon returned to say that Sir Hector's last words to Lady Westover before he went, were, "Well, my dear Lady, you will take care of that madcap child of mine at the races to-day."



go,



"So you see your father expects you to

and that he would not do if he apprehended any danger to Ernest. No, depend

upon it, this being the first time he has knocked his head out of reach of Mrs. Nelson and her pommade divine, the boy has made the most of it."





"Come now, I shall ring for Mrs. Fenton, and do you set about your toilette with all speed. Papa would never get over it if you did not go. He intends to drive you in his phaeton, and I believe Lord Glendinnon and some other man are to sit in the rumble. And oh! such a parasol my revered parent has just produced, which he intends presenting to you. Were I Mamma I would not allow of such doings. It must have cost a pretty sum! He never gives me such things. Now! fair lady, make haste! By the bye, I hear you have such loves of bonnets."

"Yes, poor Louise made them all, and they cost next to nothing. She is so clever; and after all her trouble not to see them on me," sighed Car.

Lady Millicent's inducements were irresistible, and before the toilette was half completed, Caroline was herself again, quarrel





L



ling with the maid one moment, chattering to Lady Millicent, who looked in ever and anon to see how she was going on, and at length finally forgetting all about poor Ernest and his broken head.

And we must allow that beautiful the girl looked when at last the unfortunate abigail had completed her labours, and saw her young lady leave this room of confusion worse confounded-dresses here, bonnets there, gloves and small boots littering the floor. Car had never been so anxious to make a soignée and becoming morning toilette, and not having Louise to give her advice, on which her mistress generally relied as infallible, she became irritable and impatient to a frightful extent.

She had no opinion of Fenton's "dowdy old taste," as she called it—was dissatisfied with everything she said or did, and made the poor woman so nervous that she felt





inclined to give it up and run out of the room. At length, after Car had dragged off a bonnet from her head and thrown it to the other end of the room, declaring that Fenton had entirely put it out of shape by her clumsy manner of handling it, and had torn off her back a beautiful, new, expensive French muslin, because she insisted that the flounces had not been properly ironed out, the poor woman could bear it no longer.

Bursting into tears she declared that having done her best to please, and totally failing, she really could do no more.

"I shall speak to the General when he returns, Miss Eversfield, and tell him that I am of no use to you, and entreat him to send me back."

Car was alarmed. In a subdued tone she said,

"How silly you are, Fenton !-don't you





know it's



my way ? I often get into rages with Louise even. I think nothing of slapping her face when I am in a passion. I don't mean all I do and say."

"But I do, Miss Eversfield, and cannot stand it any longer; and to think of your destroying that expensive dress and that pretty bonnet, and your papa and mamma, with their large family, little able to afford such extravagant waste. No, indeed, I should go into a fever if I were to wait upon you much longer, Miss Car."

"Oh, good gracious!" thought Car, "what in the name of patience am I to do? Now this botheration old creature, what a scrape she will get me into if she complains to papa, and just now too!"

And Car was obliged to do violence to her feelings, and beg pardon, and coax, and fondle the good woman, who had been with





Lady Julia many years, ever since Car could



remember.



"You wouldn't be so cruel as to tease papa just at this moment, when he is so miserable about poor Erny,-your favourite Erny, Fenton?"

"I am very, very sorry for your papa and Master Ernest," Fenton replied, "but he is not my favourite, Miss Car. My favourite is that dear, good son, Mr. Albert." Ernest is too

"Ah, that's a cut at me. like a certain bad girl called Caroline to be your dearest, Fenton;" and she looked slyly at the maid. "Ah, yes, I see that is the reason; you cannot deny it;" and seeing a half-smile on the tear-stained face of the poor woman, Car thought her victory won, and putting her two hands upon her shoulders, held her fast, looking into her face with that insinuating, irresistible expres





sion she so well knew how to assume, and said,

"I shall not let you stir, Fenton, till you say you have forgiven me, and that you will not tell papa. You will see how pretty behaved I shall be. You will even fancy you are waiting upon Gerry."

"Oh, I shall never take you for dear Miss Geraldine," Fenton replied, with an ironical emphasis in her tone, "but as you say you will behave better, Miss Caroline, of course I must try to remain with you whilst you are here; but oh!" she exclaimed, taking up the remains of the pretty French muslin, "what in the world can be done with this? It is past my skill at mending. And to think of the money it cost!"



END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.


CHAPTER I.



SUCH a delicious day! Heavy rain in the night had completely laid the dust and refreshed the atmosphere.



A luxurious carriage was at the door, awaiting the fair one's arrival, and Lord Westover impatiently looking for his beautiful companion, holding in his hand a parasol and bouquet, both unrivalled in perfection, which the ci-devant jeune homme presented with the devoted empressement of one-and-twenty.



B





Car was assisted into the front seat of the phaeton by more than one cavalier, and soon might have been seen whirling on at a brisk pace through the balmy air, delighting Lord Westover's ears by the rapturous expressions of delight which burst from her lips whilst she examined the costly little present.

"Is not this lovely?" she at length exclaimed, as she turned round, and held it to the gentlemen seated in the rumble.



Lord Glendinnon, who was anxiously awaiting an opportunity of addressing her, was speedily on the alert. Car's hands. were very full during that drive. She had to divide her attention as evenly as possible between her two noble admirers.



"How tiresome it is!" she thought; "I must be extra civil to Lord Westover this morning, after having accepted such a ridiculously expensive present the very last thing I cared to have. I have a parasol I





like much better, although it is not so absurdly costly."

Poor Lord Westover, and these are all the thanks he really gains for his extravagant generosity. And so it often proves to the giver of presents, if he did but know it a waste of time, trouble, and money. "The very last thing I cared to have," is too often the inward ejaculation of a favoured one, whom alone to please had been the anxious desire of the donor.





It is certainly, on the whole, we think, more gratifying to give than to receive. However, Car acted her part with her usual adroitness in such positions. She pleased both of her companions, and reached Brookwood in the highest spirits.

Although Lord Glendinnon had outlived the days of romantic love at first sight, he nevertheless was quite as susceptible as ever to the attractions of female beauty.





"Love and war" might well have served as the motto of this gallant General, for certainly those two pursuits were, and had ever been, the engrossing business of his existence.



At the mature age of five or six-and-forty, practice had made him perfect in the art of captivation, and his handsome person and insinuating address, proved very powerful arguments to his cause whenever he wished to enslave a heart. In early youth, Lord Glendinnon had been talked into a mariage de convenance, but it had not answered; a year or two, and the unsympathising couple were disunited. A legal separation was all that in those more stringent days they could obtain, and so the pair, encumbered by a hated tie, not to be shaken off, pursued their several paths of life.

His Lordship however little cared. He had had quite enough of matrimony, and





could dispense cheerfully with its exacting duties and requirements. He minded not futurity-who was to succeed to his title. and estates; any one might have them, when he was gone; what mattered it to him? To enjoy himself whilst he lived, was his sole aim and end.



His existence was one of entire self-indulgence. Fortunately amongst his other inclinations the passion for military fame was strongly interwoven in his nature, and the ardour with which he pursued the duties of a soldier, had perhaps retrieved his character in some degree, from wholly succumbing to the influence of a life of voluptuous selfindulgence.

In a military capacity he was ready to work and act, to face dangers and hardships as cheerfully as any man.

Mounted on his charger, his appearance, so conspicuous from its commanding height





and handsome proportions, no one could gaze upon him without admiration, enhanced by the idea that the man whose position could command every good this world had to bestow, left all willingly behind to encounter the dangers and privations of a soldier's lot.



There was something fine and exalting in this idea, and quite sufficient to render Lord Glendinnon an object of hero-worship, even to those who were aware of his private character, that of a sensualist in every sense of the word. For his had indeed been a life of refined vice- if so we might term it.



But we do not wish to enter into any of the details of his career, nor to dwell upon the repellent features of his youth, manhood, and middle age.

We call it a life of crime, though, seen by the world through that medium of toler





ation so freely accorded to what are called the peccadilloes of the male sex, particularly those of the higher classes, they were for the most part wilfully overlooked, or passed over with seeming indifference.



For certainly, his misdemeanours had not excluded Lord Glendinnon from general society though as time went on, and perhaps some flagrant act of impropriety and want of principle burst upon the public eye, too glaring to be wholly ignored, a few, more stringent in their ideas, kept aloof, and excluded this gay Lothario, this all-conquering profligate, from any familiar association with their families, and finally a divorce, the consequence of his attentions to a young and hitherto happy married woman, rendered him for a time too notorious for even the most tolerant of "birds of his own feather" openly to




sanction his society - but little cared the culprit.

He was in disgrace he saw plainly; "but it will soon pass," he thought, as he returned to his house one afternoon, after having been received by Royalty at a levée with most freezing coldness. "I must go away for a little time, and all this confounded business will blow over, but it is peculiarly inconvenient just at this moment." However, before Lord Glendinnon could make his final arrangements for a lengthened tour, his services were required in a very different direction. War was declared, and in the battle-field, his blood, freely given for his country, soon washed from all memories every recollection save that of his consummate military gallantry.





Lord Glendinnon, after a short though brilliant and glorious campaign, returned to England, the cherished idol of the nation; the





empty sleeve showing that he had lost an arm in the defence of England's rights, drawing forth from every heart unmixed feelings of gratitude and admiration. And so all was forgotten, and the noble Earl was once more the courted and the admired, few retaining even the remembrance of those stories which told of broken hearts, desolated homes, and perverted innocence, caused by the fatal power of this now again worshipped hero.

Sir Hector, although well acquainted with Lord Glendinnon, and as a military man coming in constant contact with him, had avoided making him known to his wife. He had no wish to introduce a man of his character into his home, particularly now that he began with dread to be obliged to acknowledge that his beautiful daughter was no subject to be trusted in the society of one so fascinating and yet so dangerous.





Sir Hector on no account would have brought Car to Westover, had he imagined it possible that Lord Glendinnon was to have been there, and it was with no small degree of impatience that he detected the admiring though covert glances cast upon Caroline during the dinner, glances which the unfortunate father well knew were all detected and appreciated by that arrant flirt, his daughter.



And Lord Glendinnon, with his hawk's eye, saw at once the precise state of the case; knew exactly the father's ideas upon the subject; could tell every feeling reflected upon that honest open face; and read too plainly the inmost recesses of Car Eversfield's mind.



He could see at once that she was a creature of passionate impulse, without heart or principle to guide her, and he also saw that she was most beautiful in her style





of youthful, glowing richness of tint, sparkling eyes, and rosy lips, with a form exquisitely modelled, and, alas! (for Lady Julia was not there to admonish), its charms far too lavishly exposed; and he saw, moreover, in her a girl ready to receive from him any degree of incense which it might please his fancy to offer her.

Lord Glendinnon, as we before remarked, was too old to be romantic, and falling in love at first sight was not at all in his category; that is to say, what most people define as falling in love at all.



But, nevertheless, he had been at once struck by the style of beauty possessed by Miss Eversfield, whom he had often seen and passingly admired in London, and as their eyes met during the dinner, he was perfectly aware that she would be the easiest of victims to his attentions. Not that he had at that moment the least idea





of attempting to win any more than an occasional smile from a fair one, fenced around with the formidable defence of such a father's surveillance.



It would, however, be a piquante amusement to elicit a few sparks from those brilliant eyes, and to cause the round soft cheek to glow with a still brighter carnation. Besides, it was agreeable to have anything so pleasant to gaze upon. The drive to the races had not dispelled this admiration. A nearer view of Car's beaming face only still more displayed its charms; and at the end of the long drive, Lord Glendinnon still hovered near her, insisting upon taking upon himself the sole office of assisting her down from the phaeton, and then leading her to the stand, Lord Westover being obliged to transfer his attentions to some dowager of the party.





CHAPTER II.



CAR was enjoying herself to her heart's content, oblivious of all except the moment's gratification. She had forgotten her father's parting words, her brother's illness; no thought of her sick mother threw a moment's gloom over those bright moments, and moreover, it had entirely escaped her memory that such a man as Norman Lawless had ever existed, and that she was to meet him that day in this very place, and, what was worse, to give her final answer to his proposal. And she would fain have continued to be oblivious, so absorbed was she in the exultation of the present moment.





What was the adulation she had been hitherto accustomed to receive, in comparison with those words which she now heard poured into her ears—and by such a man? mere child's play.





Those silly boys whose hearts she had so easily caught, whom ruthlessly she had the power to annihilate with a frown and vanquish with a smile, those abject slaves who, like pretty lap-dogs, would fawn at her feet, and humble themselves in the dust to obtain her slightest favour, her most indifferent smile!



No, it had been indeed all childish play before but now how different! That splendid yet formidable-looking man, gazing at her with eyes of unmistakable admiration, with such softness in his keen eyes, he, that great warrior, the cherished hero of the day, and such a connoisseur too in female beauty, as he was always considered,





—this was a triumph indeed! And her heart beat proudly as her eyes sunk under his gaze, which even she, bold as was her nature, could scarcely encounter.



Suddenly her attention was aroused by the entrance of a party into the stand. Just then a sudden qualm came over her, for, towering over the heads of others, she perceived Norman Lawless. He was making his way towards the front of the stand, and on his arm there hung a young lady. The rest of the party were all known to her: it consisted of Lady Sutherland and her son Lord Sinclair, and several young ladies, whom Lady Sutherland was evidently chaperoning.

As soon as they were seated, Car saw that young Lawless's eyes were restlessly seeking some one, she well knew who, and speedily they rested upon herself, and her conspicuous companion.





At first a smile of pleasure flashed from his eyes, but soon a knitting of the eyebrows, and a sudden compression of the lips, indicated that a fierce pang had assailed his heart, as he noted Lord Glendinnon, and saw at once the devoted manner in which he was accosting his all but affianced wife that man so well known as a very scourge to those who feared his rivalry a man whose power over a woman's feelings seemed inevitable, if he only chose to excite it.





The young man sat gazing in petrified bewilderment for some time, his face becoming paler and paler, but suddenly he turned to his companion, and apparently devoted himself to her.



She was young and simply dressed, no wonderful beauty conspicuous in her face, her complexion so pale, only lighted up suddenly, now and then, by a slight suf





fusion, giving animation to her eyes, which were strikingly fine. She smiled and looked up, with evident pleasure and confidence, into Norman Lawless's face, as he addressed her, and pointed out anything of interest which was going on, and Car at once could detect in his manner a degree of ease and familiarity which evidently evinced that she was not a recent acquaintance.

"I wonder who she can be," thought Car, as she noted all this, and like a true woman of her sort, though little she cared for poor young Lawless, a spirit partaking of jealousy springing instantaneously into her heart"Who dared take her place with any one, until she had chosen to cast him off for ever?" And she even at this moment cogitated to herself" I dare say it will end in my having to marry that man; so he had better beware."

"You are acquainted with those people



с





who have just arrived, I think, Miss Eversfield?" asked Lord Glendinnon, with a significant expression in his tone: "at least one of them is well known to you, for I have often envied him his position-riding by your side in the park."

Car coloured up to her eyes, and then replied, "Oh, yes; he is one of Albert's friends. I am always infested by a tribe of young guardsmen."

"But Captain Lawless, I imagined, was the favoured one," persisted his lordship. "Who is that little girl by his side? I suppose his sister. She is rather piquante in her expression," he added, as he looked at her through his opera-glass; "something foreign in her style; not at all like a Lawless; certainly, at least, not the young ladies of the family I have seen."

"I know nothing about her," Car answered shortly; "and pray, Lord Glendin





non, do not talk about my favouring Captain Lawless. I can tell you most truly that he is not at all in my style. I hate boys."

"How glad I am to hear you say so!" was the reply. "Then you have not been wearied by having me at your side for so long. I who, alas! am old enough to be the father of your young lovers." Then followed a few whispered words, which had the effect of dimpling the cheeks of the girl with smiles, and, although her eyes were downcast, she could feel with thrilling delight the expression with which she knew her noble admirer was regarding her.

And Lord Glendinnon enjoyed all this to his heart's core. It was one of the chief pastimes of his life, amusing himself in this way; attracting the feelings of every beautiful woman who had caught his own passing fancy, and to step in between every other






man who had before stood well in her estimation.

He began to admire Car Eversfield amazingly; but of course had no design upon her beyond the present moment. She was far beyond his reach; but it was pleasant, whilst it lasted, to make her thoroughly miserable and in love with him, and also extremely to his taste, to become the formidable rival of any presumptuous youth whose honourable attachment towards the present plaything of his fancy might be for ever blighted by the insidious poison of his attentions.



The heart of young Lawless was inflating with every degree of passion as the day passed on. He saw all that was going forward, yet seemed to ignore even the know-ledge that his faithless fair one was present. His devotion was all lavished on his companion, whose young face was beaming with





undisguised delight, whilst she listened to the random talk of her neighbour, and received his attentions, little understanding the reason of the feverish excitement of his



manner.





Upon my word, little cousin," he exclaimed as he looked upon her, “you are grown very handsome! I should scarcely have known you again for the little dark mountain fairy of three years ago:" and the vivid blush this speech elicited was noted by Car Eversfield.



A great deal of laughing and talking ensued between them; and then she saw the party rise and disappear, in order to eat their luncheon; and finally she met them all nearly face to face as they walked on the



course.

A bow and a look of recognition from Car sent the blood from the face of the young guardsman. There was something





in that look which said, "And pray why do you not speak to me?"

She had thought, "This will never do; I must not let the matter drop so lightly, as if, forsooth, I was of so little consequence. I shall take care not to give him a final answer; but I'll not stand his giving me up so easily."



Lord Glendinnon was not with her at that moment. Car was then walking with Lord Westover, and it did not the least surprise her to find Captain Lawless a moment after at her side.



Immediately, with a soft look, she placed her hand in his, which trembled with emotion, but he did not speak; and the only conversation which ensued was between Lord Westover and the young man. She heard, at last, an invitation given to him to come to Westover the following day, to stay till the end of the week, which was imme





diately accepted. He would be at Westover to dinner; he was obliged to be in London that evening, and must therefore give up the morrow's race; but after that he should be at liberty.

"Now it is all over with me," she thought; "all my fun spoilt. However, thank goodness, I have one day more to enjoy the delight of that man's society, that more than glorious creature; but how shall I ever be able to turn to the vapid, uninteresting society of my future husband?"

And anyone who had watched the countenance of this girl whilst she thus meditated, might have traced an expression upon it militating greatly with the smiles which she a moment afterwards turned upon Norman Lawless, who lingered at her side, his before clouded countenance brightened, and his eyes seeking those of the





perfidious Car, with looks of the most intense love.



"And who is that beautiful girl?" asked the young lady, who was again seated by Captain Lawless's side in the stand, "whom you stopped to talk with? I have been watching her the whole day. How devoted to her that fierce, handsome-looking man seems to be, and how she smiles and blushes at all he whispers in her ear! By-the-by, is she not that lovely creature I have seen you riding with in the Park?"



Lawless started as if he had received a sharp wound, but did not answer.

The young lady looked at him with surprise, as she saw how pale he turned, and noted the sinister look which darkened his expression.

"What is the matter?" she gently said. "Matter! what do you think can be the matter, my little cousin ?" he replied, turn





ing towards her. "You asked me who that girl is; I will tell you ;-she is a beautiful fiend, I believe."



The girl started, and Lawless laughed, and a bitter laugh it was.

"But never mind," he continued; "don't look at her. The horses are going to start; stand up and look at the race, and wish me well. I shall gain a good stake if the boy in yellow wins."

And Car, who had eyes and ears for everything, watched the movements of the pair; how, with strange familiarity, Lawless seemed to assist and hang over his neighbour; how his eyes dwelt upon her eager face whilst the horses were running; and how, in her anxiety, she grasped his arm with perfect familiarity; and when, finally, Yellow Jacket came in first, how she clapped her hands with joy, looking so pretty and youthful in the free abandonment





of her feelings, Car's heart swelled with envy, particularly when Lord Glendinnon's eyes, being attracted in that direction, fell upon the young girl who had made herself so conspicuous by her unrestrained demonstrations of pleasure, and he exclaimed, ——



"That is a pretty child of nature; graceful as only nature could make her. Who is she, I wonder? Such freshness is seldom to be met with in the Brookwood race-stand.".



Lord Glendinnon did not at that moment look at the fair one by his side, or he would have been reminded that, to the tenacious ears of a vain beauty, praise of another is indeed gall and wormwood. Car could have murdered the pale little girl who was thus dividing the observation of her two admirers.



The return home proved a tedious conLord Westover was obliged to drive back some gentleman guest who had relied

cern.





upon him for a seat in the phaeton, and Car was forced to return in the barouche with Lady Westover and some ladies. She watched Norman assist his companion of the stand on to the rumble of one of the carriages belonging to the party, and take his place by the delighted girl, all smiles of happiness. Car thought he also looked a great deal too contented in that position, as he passed as rapidly as four post horses could go, and touched his hat carelessly to her. Her inward ejaculation was, shall pay for this; but in the meanwhile I should like to know who that horrid girl is. What creatures men admire ! Even Lord Glendinnon stared at her through his opera-glass, and pronounced her piquante. And that old frump, Lord Sinclair, had his eye upon her all the time, like a vieux grandpapa, as he is. Well, there is no accounting for tastes. By-the-by, now I

"He



-





think of it, I remember to have seen her in Lady Sunderland's opera-box, my former fogy of a lover, Lord Sinclair, by her side. She never struck me as worth even asking who she might be; but it seems, in this case, that what's one man's meat is another man's poison."



These were the inward thoughts of the beautiful Car.





CHAPTER III.



CAR was on the point of stepping into bed that night, when Lady Millicent, candle in hand, entered the room.



"What have you been about all this time, Milly?" she exclaimed, whilst she settled herself comfortably in her pretty little nest.



"About ?" answered Lady Millicent, yawning, "why listening to a long lecture mamma has been giving, and which she desired me to repeat verbatim to you."

"Well, begin at once," Car replied, shutting her eyes, "and I shall be asleep before you come to the end of the first sentence;





that sort of thing has always the effect of a dose of laudanum upon me."

"But I can assure you, Car, it is no joke. Mamma is seriously displeased by the manner in which you are conducting yourself with Lord Glendinnon."







Going on, is the proper way of describing my sins. I never conduct myself; that's too proper a term; I go on."

"Yes, you do go on, indeed," said her friend: "and mamma says, if Lord Glendinnon was not going away so soon, she could not bear the responsibility of having you under her charge, unless Sir Hector returned."



Car burst into a fit of laughter, and sprung up into her bed.

"What in the world does she think I am going to do?" she asked. "What sin in nature can it be to talk to a man old enough to be my father?"





"Mamma says she has invited Captain Lawless on your account, knowing how much he is in love with you; and she feels quite certain that the affair will be entirely at an end if you go on, as you call it, in such a manner with that profligate man."

"Now, Milly, that's all jealousy. You grudge the dear man's little attentions to me. If you had been the favoured fair" "I lay no claim to Lord Glendinnon's attentions," indignantly replied the young lady. "I am neither a beauty, nor am I a flirt; and, moreover, I am engaged to marry another man. However, I must just tell you one thing, Car. It is all very well amusing yourself as you have done; you have had your fun, and so have I, though not quite in your way; but there is a time for everything, and if you don't take care you'll be left in the lurch some day. Men will find what a two-edged tool you are,





and you will be left alone as one too dangerous to play with. And, to cut the matter short, for I am tired and sleepy, mamma bid me tell you that if you do not behave yourself (of course she expressed herself more courteously), she really will write to Lady Julia. So good night, Car, and pray be a good girl."

And Car was left to darkness and meditation. From the latter she was soon relieved, for scarcely had she once more laid her head upon her pillow, petulantly exclaiming, "What bores they all are!" when sleep overtook her, and she was wrapt in its overpowering shades, until awakened by her maid the following morning.



Oh, what a dull day this will be!" she yawned. "None of the ladies are to go to the races; only the gentlemen. No use getting up, I think. And, by-the-by, I am in dis





grace; I suppose Lady Westover will give Millicent is grow

me a lecture in person. ing mighty disagreeable since her engagement to that prig of a lord; she used to be as up to fun as anyone, once. That's just one of the evils of matrimony; a girl so often changes into a dull ditty of a piece of propriety, particularly if she has been a good out-and-outer of the fast sort before. And sometimes, strange to say, it is quite the contrary; the quietest girls become after marriage stunning wild ones. Well, for my part, I do not think anything will ever change me; no, not a million of husbands. But really it is a bore!-people will never let me enjoy myself; and that tiresome Lawless coming this evening!" Certainly the girl looked a perfect picture of freshness and youth, as she sat all dishevelled, just as she had quitted her bed, leaning her chin upon her hand, cogitating;



D





one moment pouting her red lips, and impatiently stamping her white naked foot ; the next, smiling triumphantly, whilst her eyes sparkled as thoughts of the past evening crowded through her mind.

"Yes," she at last said, "it is very fine preaching to me; it is of no use. I always said I was a doomed one, and I cannot like anything that is considered good for me. Mine, I suppose, is a vitiated taste, for I think Lord Glendinnon quite perfection. Oh! to be his slave, would that not be bliss? Does not the idea make me shrink from the trammels of being one man's wife ?—and I, who care not one fig for that boy Lawless. But they want to get rid of me, and I suppose that must be my fate; and he, that prince of men, will be gone to

morrow."



It was late before Car Eversfield made her appearance at the breakfast-table. She





slipped into the chair by Lord Westover's side, without being perceived by those who sat at the other side of the long table.

Lord Glendinnon, she saw, was seated by Lady Westover, and her ladyship seemed to be engrossing his attention by what she was saying, which, by the shakes of her head, portentous nods, and reproachful smiles, Car knew must be of some importance. If her ears had been long enough, she might have heard her say,



By-the-by, Lord Glendinnon, I really am going to scold you.'

""

"My dear Lady, what have I done?" "You are turning the head of Car Eversfield, who is already the most difficult girl to manage. I believe she has almost driven poor Lady Julia distracted." Lady Westover, what have I done? Do you think that a beautiful girl like that would care to be noticed by such an old







fellow as I am? I talk to her as I would to my daughter."

you

"You know very well, Lord Glendinnon, that you are talking nonsense," Lady Westover answered, laughing. "However, I must ask to suspend your fatherly notice, for we expect Captain Lawless to-day, who is head and ears over in love with her, and, I believe, half engaged to marry her. For mercy's sake, let the affair come off, which it certainly will not, if you become the young man's rival. Car is the most slippery creature that ever existed, leading men on to the very last moment, and then, without the slightest compunction, throwing them over. Now in Lord Sinclair's case, that would have been such a marriage for her! But no; after turning even his wise head completely, nothing would induce her to accept him. It almost broke her mother's heart."





Lord Glendinnon laughed, and endeavoured completely to ignore what she meant by her attack upon him; but, happening to turn his head, he encountered a pair of eyes fixed so intently upon him that, blasé as he was, he felt the colour rise in his cheeks, and the thought struck him that he had certainly better "take care what he was about." Lord Glendinnon knew perfectly the inmost character of this girl. He read it most legibly in her face, her words, her actions; for, with all her sins, Car was no hypocrite. The feeling of the moment was ever conspicuous in her countenance, and soon gave utterance in words.



He was well aware what an impulsive creature she was, and he saw how attractively handsome she also was. He admired her greatly. To his vitiated taste she was just what pleased him most; so young, and





yet evidently so thoroughly captivated by himself; just the thing to enhance her perfections; for what man of forty-five is not flattered by the evident preference of a very young girl? But he reflected, "I must, indeed, take care; it will not be safe ground."



And soon he saw her open a letter the servant had just delivered.



"Ernest is better," she exclaimed joyfully; then added, in a less excited tone, "and papa will be here to dinner."

And Car looked very grave; she was thinking that she must, indeed, mind what she was about, and she wished " dear papa would have stayed one day more at Portsmouth. And Lord Glendinnon thought so too; but his reflections were something in this strain, as he sauntered out of the breakfast-room without approaching Car Eversfield. "It is just as well, no doubt;





I should have played the fool, and done still more mischief. I see that ignitible little girl is rather dangerous to play with, for unfortunately she has a father!"

However, before his lordship departed for the races, he could not resist doing a little more mischief. Espying a group of young ladies sauntering in the flower garden, adjacent to the house, he joined them.



"I came," he said in a low voice to Car, "to beg for something sweet to put in my button-hole. I should like one of those," and he pointed to some beautiful blossoms which she had placed in her bosom. Car immediately presented them, with glowing cheeks and sparkling eyes.

"But you must arrange them for me. I, poor powerless man, with but this one hand to help myself!"


The girl instantly obeyed. They were apart from the rest; the others were busily engaged in looking at the birds in an aviary close by. Her fingers trembled as she adjusted the flowers. Never had this wild girl felt as now. She was conquered at last; and as her head stooped low, whilst fastening the flowers in the button-hole, bringing her in such close contact with a heart whose very beatings she could feel, it was with a thrill of joy, rather than indignation, that she felt an arm round her waist, pressing her to that heart, and a kiss imprinted on her bended head. Oh, poor misguided girl! and she felt flattered, delighted, little heeding the impropriety of the act, its disrespectful impertinence, the liberty presumed to be taken with her father's daughter. She shrank not from these caresses, although she dared not raise





her eyes to meet those which she knew were bending over her so admiringly.

And with such feelings agitating every pulse of her heart, Car Eversfield awaited the arrival of the man she had made up her mind to marry.



*



It was a tedious day at Westover, particularly to Car Eversfield. Every gentleman had gone to the races.

"Oh! Milly," she said to her friend, as they sauntered in the grounds after luncheon, "what a deadly lively place the country is! Defend me from having much to do with it. I should die of the blue devils in no time."



"What will you do when you have to domicile at that grim old place in the highlands, Captain Lawless's future home, or in the old wild castle in Ireland?" was the reply.





"What shall I do? Why, cut my throat. But, Milly, any place will be as bad with him. Oh, good gracious!" and she clasped her hands, "what am I to do, Milly? I am so miserable. I know that I have what is called, compromised myself; that I have almost promised to marry that odious boy; and I hate and detest him."

Lady Millicent looked surprised.

"Car," she said, "this is very horrid. What is to be done?”



"There is only one thing to be done; I must marry him. I know they all want to get rid of me, and that will be better than going home to that country home. They talk of giving up the house in London, and living always at that detestable place; I to be shut up in that prison, with its green walls of thick treesI who only live when I feel myself in dear London; who never care about seeing any





tree but the dusty leaves in the Park and Kensington Gardens; who care for no sounds but of the carriages rattling over the stones of that delicious town. What matters to me the song of birds? — horrid little things! I should soon pine and die. Schools and cottages-the very idea makes me sick. I am a regular London girl, Milly; and it will be better to be tied even to that stupid fellow Lawless, and drag on my chains there, than pine and break my heart in the country; everybody looking shocked whenever I open my mouth; no one asked to enter our doors but old frumps. No. I will marry him- there is no alternative; - but oh, what a bore it will be!"



Her friend laughed; but notwithstanding her former fastness, Lady Millicent was, in comparison to Car, certainly not a vicious girl, though her worldly breeding had de





teriorated a mind otherwise not inclined to be bad.

She had, however, fortunately been destined to obtain a husband of a superior stamp to those with whom she had so freely associated heretofore. Lord Nursland was a sensible, excellent young man; and Lady Millicent soon found that, if she married him, she must remodel all her ideas and ways before she could be a fit wife for him; indeed, he had gently insinuated to her that he did not approve of that bold girl, Car Eversfield; and hoped that, when he returned from his mission to St. Petersburgh, he should find that she had, in a measure, dropped her acquaintance.

And this led to a slight quarrel between the lovers; Millicent standing up for Car, and declaring that nothing would induce her to give up her old friend. However, the eyes of the young lady were now opened





to much that had before passed uncensured. She saw Car certainly under quite a new aspect, and shrank almost with something like disgust at her sayings and doings; and when she heard this declaration from her lips, of her determination to marry a man whom she said "she hated and detested," she really thought it very dreadful, and soon, although at first she laughed, became grave and silent.



"What is the matter, Milly?" Car at length exclaimed. "Why, you look as grave as any of those stupid people who think every word I speak atrocious; how changed you are!"



"I am, I suppose, changed; for what you say sounds to me very terrible; and I really think, although it may make a fuss, you had better at once give up young Lawless-"





The words had scarcely passed her lips, when the person just named suddenly appeared before them, issuing from a side walk they were just passing.





CHAPTER IV.



BOTH the girls started and coloured violently; Lady Millicent fearing Lawless must have heard his name just uttered by her. She turned her eyes anxiously upon Car, wondering what her greeting would be to the young man; and, to her surprise, it was quite the reverse of cold disdain or dislike.



With her cheeks glowing, and her eyes still brilliant, from the startling feelings this sudden appearance of the man on whom she had been pouring invectives had occasioned, she turned towards Captain Lawless, and no one could have imagined,





from the manner in which this first-rate coquette accosted him, that she "hated and detested him." No! -for her thoughts probably were: Ought is better than Nought."



Anything in the semblance of a man was, for the time being, acceptable in her eyes, upon whom she could exercise her wiles, and from whom she might receive the incense of admiration.



The young man, at first nervously agitated, was soon calming down into delighted hope, as he perceived the soothing demeanour of the girl whom he really loved. with all the ardour of an impassioned



nature.

Oh, that wily Car! who, to have seen her at that moment, could have imagined what was passing in her deceitful heart?

Not even her friend could fathom the real state of her feelings. She thought, "After all, perhaps all this time Car,





really cares for Captain Lawless, and what she has been saying is merely her ordinary truthless façon de parler. She cannot be so bad as she really makes herself out to be, How she now encourages that poor young man by those alluring glances! Well, I shall contrive to escape and leave them together, and perhaps the affair may be settled in a satisfactory manner. Oh, how I wish Lord Glendinnon had never been here! All then would have gone right." And Lady Millicent did contrive to make her escape, and the pair were left alone in an umbrageous part of the wood, some distance from the house. They were silent a few minutes, and then Car abruptly exclaimed,



"Pray, who was that girl to whom you were so devoted yesterday? It was faute de mieux, I suppose, that you were so outrageously civil to her."







"Oh, not at all," was the reply. "Don't you think she is a very attractive looking girl? I consider her a charming little creature."



Car turned very red, and tossed her head with a contemptuous gesture.

"Don't you admire her?" Lawless again asked.



"Admire her? not I; a white-faced fright; but I suppose you do," and she looked defiantly at the young man, whose spirits were rising at the present aspect of affairs. She did then care for him, for evidently she was jealous.

"But do you care whether I admire her, or not?" he asked, in a soft tone of tenderness.

"I-why should I?" was the pettish answer. "I can only deplore your bad taste. But again I ask you, who is she? what is her name? I desire you will tell me!" and she stamped her foot.





"What's in a name?" Lawless commenced, laughing; "the rose," but he was cut short in his quotation by his imperious lady-love.

"Oh hold your tongue!" she cried, “I don't want to hear that old worn-out quotation, I only want to know who that girl is; if you won't tell me I shall leave you this

moment."

my

"Well, then, if you will have it, she is cousin."

"Oh! Your cousin, is she?" and she surveyed him from head to foot. "No great family likeness," she added; "her colouring is slightly different;" and she looked superciliously at the certainly rather sandy hair of the young Captain.

"No," he added, "I cannot boast such attractions as my little cousin such eyes, such teeth! In a year or two we shall see how handsome she will be."





"Oh!" was the ejaculation which issued from the lips of Car; but there was as much significance in the monosyllable as if much had been spoken; and then, turning round, she added, "I am going to the house." But that was soon prevented, her hand tightly grasped in that of Captain Lawless, and then came words and protestations; such a torrent of love poured from his lips, that even Car's hard heart was for the moment touched.

He led her to a seat, and then, in a manly, honest manner, laid at her feet every hope of future happiness,- -in short, asked her (and his manner calmed down into almost a tone of solemnity) what her final decision was to be.

"I can brook no farther uncertainty," he added, fiercely. "Tell me, at once, whether you can love me sufficiently to be my wife;





but if your feelings are repugnant to our union, say so now, and I must try to make up my mind to a fate of wretchedness, disappointment-nay, despair." "Yes, Car," he continued with almost frantic vehemence, “it is easy for you to smile and look incredulous; you, who, though I love you to distraction, I know full well are false and cold-hearted. You can never feel as I do! No; your decision and future conduct as my wife will be the turning point in my character. If you marry me, and love me, all may be well; all that is bad in me-and I tell you truly there is much of bad in my nature-may soften down and improve;-but,"—and the expression of the young man's face became so alarming that even Car's courage began to wax feeble, so livid a hue overspread his face, such a vindictive gleam glowed from his eyes.

"If you throw me off, after already hav





ing drawn me on to suppose you would become my wife, I am a ruined man, and not only will you have my moral destruction to answer for, but, you may depend upon it, Car, you will also fall with me. Now, at once and finally, speak out,-is it to be, or is it not?"



"What a fuss you are making about nothing at all," exclaimed the girl, trying to shake off the momentary feeling of discomfiture and fear her lover's violence had inspired. "What occasion is there for all this absurd and abusive tirade? Why cannot you ask me quietly, and in a gentlemanly manner, the question? I don't like to be bullied in this way."

"Bullied!" was the reply, "ask your own conscience whether I have not every right to be thus vehement,-that is to say, if you possess such a thing as a conscience. I am not a man to be defied, to be trampled under





foot with impunity, to sit patiently and see my affianced wife allow the libertine devotion of a man like Lord Glendinnon, a man who does not possess one atom of principle where a woman is concerned. Car, if you are to marry me, you must solemnly promise to have no more communication with him, neither by word nor act."

Car's heart sank within her. What was she to do? Strange to say, the lover by her side had lost nothing in her estimation by his present decided though stern proceeding. A woman in her heart always appreciates firmness in a man, whether for good or bad. Anything approaching to weakness sinks him at once in her opinion. Make a man a slave, and when once that is done, the next thing which follows is that he is despised.

Car never felt so disposed to favour her young lover as at this moment, when his





words, his looks, his actions, all betrayed the strong feelings of his heart, even though they were hurled in invectives against herself.



Lawless had risen from the seat, and was now pacing backwards and forwards before her in uncontrollable agitation.



"Well!" he at length exclaimed, “what do you intend to say? Will you agree to my proposal and the conditions ?"

"Oh, Norman!" she answered, meekly for her, for she actually felt nervous,  you really frighten me!"

"You need not be frightened, Car," he said more gently; "but I must have a decisive answer, now or never. Will you marry me, and will you promise never again to speak to Lord Glendinnon?-of course I mean never but in the most distant manner. Now, don't argue the point, but say at once, yes or no."





"I will, I will," she said hurriedly. "Swear that you will do both: marry me, and drop the acquaintance of that libertine."



Car paused before she again spoke; but such a look was emitted from the eyes, which never moved from her face, that with a faltering voice she said,

"I swear. You are very cruel to treat me in this way."

"Cruel, my darling! my beautiful love!" now cried the young man; "cruel, only to be the more kind."



And then such a storm of protestations and caresses followed, as he pressed his fiancée in his arms, that even Car was overwhelmed and overcome, and really began, wonderingly to herself, to feel that her cold heart was beginning to warm towards her ardent young lover.

"You will go at once and tell your





father and Lady Westover how happy you have made me, my sweetest ?" Lawless asked as they sauntered towards the house, being warned by the half hour bell that they must no longer linger in the wood.

"Oh no, Norman! Please let our engagement be a secret while we are in this house full of people."

"No, Car; I will not consent to this," he exclaimed vehemently, his eyes again emitting sparks of anger, and his face again becoming severe and livid. "I insist upon the business being made public to-day. It must and shall be so. I have my reasons for what I say. Are you ashamed of your engagement, pray? If so, I will set you free," and petulantly he dropped her arm.

This was indeed an off-hand manner of doing business, quite new to the spoilt Car. She felt it was all over with her, that she must succumb to her imperious lover;





and again, to her own surprise, she thought that although it was "all over with her," yet perhaps it was all right, and the only way to compete with her: so, with a meek obedience, wholly unnatural to her, she promised to tell Lady Westover, though she added,



"It will be very disagreeable to be the mark for all the eyes of the gossips assembled here."



"Never mind; it will be all for the best, I am sure."

So the young man thought. We never know what is for the best, short-sighted mortals as we are. Had the secret been kept that night, perhaps much of mischief might have been spared.





CHAPTER V.



CAR flew at once into Lady Westover's dressing-room, and without heeding who was there to hear her confessions, began at once with "Oh, Lady Westover, he has proposed, and I have accepted him!"

And she stood before the lady breathless and agitated in a most unusual way.

"I am delighted to hear it, my dear,' the lady answered, advancing and affec tionately kissing her. 'Lady Julia and Sir Hector will, I am sure, be much pleased."



แ





"Yes; at the prospect of getting rid of me," Car passionately exclaimed, at the same time beginning to cry. "Yes; and that





is the only reason I accepted him. All All my fun will be over, I plainly see. The man has a temper, Lady Westover, and he has just given me a specimen of it, and I know he will act the bashaw when he has me once in his clutches."



"Oh no, if you are a good little wife, I daresay he will make a great pet of you; but, Car, you really must





"A good little wife!" passionately interrupted the girl, "what a character to descend into. Why, Lady Westover, you are talking to me as if I were a housemaid going to marry one of your under-gardeners. I shall never make a good little wife; the very notion makes me quite sick."



Lady Westover laughed.

"Well," she said, "at any rate, pray don't make a bad little wife."



Car groaned, and added-"I suppose I shall not dare to do that; but, Lady West





over, pray don't tell the people here; not even Lord Westover."



"But Lord Westover has already heard it," said his Lordship, rising from the sofa, on which he had been reclining unseen by Car, listening with much amusement to the conversation. "Yes, I have been unwittingly an eaves-dropper, and am penetrated with envy, hatred, and all uncharitableness. I have heard that I am to lose my beautiful young friend; for now, indeed, I shall be cast for ever into the shade."



"No, indeed, Lord Westover, you will not. I like you much better than him. Oh, how I wish that tiresome man had not come here! I should, at least, have had a little more breathing time to amuse myself."



Lady Westover's maid entered the room. "If you please, Miss Eversfield, Sir





Hector has arrived, and is asking for you."



"Oh, good gracious! and now I must tell him. Was there ever such an unlucky girl born?" she exclaimed, as with a very woe-begone face, not at all like that of a blushing, conscious, but happy fiancée, she joined her father, and, scarcely listening to his account of her sick brother, interrupted him by saying

"But, papa,





I have such a thing to tell



you!"

The general was quite alarmed when he looked at her changed expression of coun

tenance.



"What is it, child?" he asked, quickly. "Oh, it is something which will please you and mamma! You will soon get rid of your troublesome Car, — I have accepted Captain Lawless.”



"We shall be glad if your happiness is





ensured by it, my child. But, Car, what is all this about?" he added, anxiously, as the girl laid her head upon his shoulder, and wept such tears as he had never before seen her shed, for they were not those of wayward petulance, but more as if they were really wrung from genuine feeling. "My darling child, what is it? Do you feel repugnant to the marriage?”

"Yes

.no. " she sobbed.

"Then why do you weep?"

"I scarcely know; but, papa, say no more. I have made up my mind, and I wish nothing to be said to unsettle my purpose. I believe, after all, Norman Lawless is the best man I could have found to





marry me." And so saying, after kissing her father over and over again most affectionately, she hurried away, knowing that she had only a few moments left in which to make her toilette.





"Oh, if Lord Glendinnon had not been here, all would have gone on well!" She sighed as she hurriedly allowed her maid to smooth her hair; she cared not how she looked or what she wore.



"It is all one with me," she thought; "he must not look at me now; and as for the other, - what does it signify?"

And she went down just when dinner was being announced, with red eyes and pale face, and in a sober manner, very unlike herself, accepted the arm of her expecting lover, and took her usual place by Lord Westover's side.



Lord Glendinnon stealthily looked across the table, and gave one glance at Car Eversfield.



"Oh," he thought, "it is as I expected! She has accepted him, and is wretched. Poor little fool, she heartily detests the idea. Yes, she is far too charming to



F





be thrown away upon that youngster, who, if report says truly, is none of the best, a hot-headed and yet obstinate fellow; he'll clip her wings, pretty bird, and try to tame her, -no easy attempt, I should say. The young tiger, to come in the way of my amusement at this moment! I never felt more inclined to fall in love than with this girl; and I had arranged to stay here a few days longer, in order to make a fool of myself."

His Lordship really felt no slight disappointment and disgust, accompanied by intense hatred, towards his young rival.

The fact is, that from his window, whilst dressing, Lord Glendinnon had seen the engaged pair advancing towards the house. He saw Car impatiently extricating herself from the arm which had presumptuously encircled her waist, evidently fearful of being observed; he noted also the trium





phant expression of the young man's face, the discomfiture of the girl's. He guessed at once how matters stood between them, and a diabolical expression overspread his

countenance.



He, the great General, Lord Glendinnon, to be set aside by a young subaltern, a beardless boy!-this man of pleasure, who had seldom met with a check in his career, whatever it might be, to be thus foiled of his present pastime!

He chafed in spirit. Execrations were poured forth upon the presumptuous Lawless; schemes of revenge concocted. A word from him, he felt, could overthrow much of his exulting happiness. And why all this rancour? What had he expected Car Eversfield ever would be to him? The mere toy of the moment, to be played with till tired of and then cast away!

"But I have not done with her yet," he





muttered between his clenched teeth, as he withdrew his eyes from a sight which, like Satan when he first looked upon the pair in Paradise, filled his heart with diabolical envy.



Car's eyes were downcast, her head averted; but young Lawless cared little who saw the exultation of his expression,the proud, happy countenance which seemed to say





"Yes, I have conquered; she is mine." "Short shall be your triumph, you abject boy," was Lord Glendinnon's thought as he sat and listened to Lady Westover's half-whispered comment,—

"I am so glad it is really to be; such a relief it will prove to poor Lady Julia, who has been almost worried to death by that girl's escapades. And it will be such a match for her; his mother, you know, was an heiress, and immensely rich

""





"The father a penniless roué of an Irish Peer," added Lord Glendinnon, sneeringly. "Yes, but that does not much signify; Lady Curraghmore qualifies it all by her respectable Scotch blood and never-ending Scotch acres."

"Oh, I know her; a regular Gorgon of a woman, with the temper of a Billingsgate habituée. By-the-bye, I have heard her son inherits that quality, though fortunately not her Ladyship's red hair."

"Oh, be merciful, my dear Lord. Perhaps it is as well that Car should stand in awe of her husband; she must not have it always her own way. But what have you heard about Captain Lawless's temper?"

"Only that it is an infernal one,-I beg your Ladyship's pardon; that, once offended, he is implacable, and that he is obstinate as the devil himself. I have heard of him





from a nephew of mine, who is in the same battalion of the Guards."



Lady Westover's attention was called away, and again Lord Glendinnon glanced towards Car, who also had her eyes fixed in his direction. She had been watching Lady Westover, well knowing what had been the theme of her conversation. Captain Lawless was bending over his plate for the moment, leaving his fair neighbour at liberty to look elsewhere, upon others besides himself.



Their eyes met.

What was it that instantaneously paled the cheek of the girl to that extent that her father, who was opposite, happening to look at her, exclaimed, "Car, are you not well?"



Then, quick as lightning, the blood flowed into the white face, crimsoning it with the ruddiest glow.





But, poor girl, unhappy as she had before felt, now she was wretched. She felt that she hated the man she was obliged to marry, and that another had stolen from her any portion of a heart she might ever have possessed. At all events, he alone pleased her fancy-we will not call it love.

A changed creature the girl appeared when she left the dining-room, and, rushing upstairs, threw herself upon her bed, and cried heartily.



"Oh! Milly, Milly, what am I to do?" she sobbed forth, when her friend soon came to her. "I am the most miserable of girls. I know I cannot get off; indeed, I dare not. But, oh, what can I do? You know I cannot like him."



“I know one thing," said Lady Millicent, "it is all that pernicious Lord Glendinnon; I saw him looking at you at dinner; he is a horrid, wicked wretch."





"I daresay he is, Milly; but still he has captivated me, and never can I get over it. No, I feel that I cannot. And I suppose it is wrong to marry another man, feeling as I do?"

"Yes, very wrong; therefore you must get over it, Car. What good will it do to you cherishing such a bad feeling? The man is married, and a wretch into the bargain. It was very wrong of Papa ever to ask him here."



"Don't talk of that glorious creature in such a manner. Oh! Milly, Milly, I adore

him."

"I am disgusted to hear you speak thus; but I rejoice to say you will soon be out of his reach. Sir Hector says Sir Hector says he goes home to-morrow, early, and I shall be heartily rejoiced to see you safe off."

"To-morrow are we to go?" cried Car, "Oh, then it will indeed be

starting up.





all over with me!" and redoubled sobbing and crying ensued.

"I advise you to remain quietly in your room to-night, Car; there is no occasion for you to appear; the people here all know already, I suppose from instinct, how matters stand, and will easily imagine that you are overcome, and so forth,-so pray encounter no more of the basilisk glances which affect you so perniciously. Now I must go for half an hour. Mamma will expect me to talk to these people, but I shall soon return; in the meanwhile lie still, Car, and compose yourself. I will make your absence all right with Captain Lawless.”

"Make it all right with Captain Lawless!-what care I for that?" Car exclaimed, starting up again, as soon as the door had closed upon her friend. "I wish she would make it all wrong! Oh! what a miserable girl I am; pledged irrevocably





to one man, and desperately in love with another! And Milly to tell me so coolly that I had better never see him again horrid, too horrid! I can't lie here all the long evening; I should be stark, staring mad in less than an hour. No, I must see him once again, though I suppose I must not speak to him, for fear of that hotheaded Norman, who I plainly see can be a very demon. However, I shall be in the same room with him, and that will be something. Yes, I will go down." And she approached the looking-glass.



"Oh!" she exclaimed, absolutely starting at her own appearance, "what a wretch I look! I scarcely know myself; but what does it now signify ?" So, after bathing her eyes and smoothing her hair, to Lady Westover's surprise she saw Car glide into

the saloon.





CHAPTER V.



CAR paused before entering the apartment; it opened upon a suite of reception-rooms, all lighted up, but at that moment empty, the whole party having just then congregated in the large saloon. She saw in a moment that the gentlemen were there, and her quick eyes rapidly fixed themselves on the individuals connected with her present thoughts and interests.

She perceived Captain Lawless, with a perturbed face, talking anxiously to Lady Millicent, and then her eyes fell upon her father in conversation with Lord Glendinnon; they were standing a little apart





from the others, and seemed to be gravely, though amicably, discussing some knotty point. No doubt musty politics, thought Car.



She stood for a minute contemplating the pair, and then a thought struck her. "I will go to Papa, and then he must speak to me; and oh! how fortunate- Milly and that tiresome Norman have just turned into the conservatory; he, I suppose, wants to ask her advice as to the proper method of managing me."



The next moment and she was by her father's side, her hand in his. Car really had always had one soft corner in her heart, which had been filled with love for her father, and the expression of her countenance always improved whilst under the influence of his kind eye.

"My darling," he said, "I heard that you were not feeling very well, and I was





just coming to seek you; but you look very blooming now," he added, as he noted the crimson flush spreading over her face and neck. "She does not give one the idea of an ailing invalid-does she, Glendinnon ?"



"No, truly," was the answer, whilst his eyes now again rested unrestrainedly upon her.



Sir Hector little imagined that it was with the poisonous gaze of that tempter, which had before driven all the lilies from her face.



Sir Hector was summoned to the whist table. "Lady Millicent is gone into the conservatory," he said; "you had better join her there, Car. She has one with her whom the sight of you will not a little cheer. Such a woe-begone countenance as his, when he heard you were not to appear, I have seldom seen. Let me take Let me take you to

them."





"Sir Hector, the whist table is waiting

impatiently for you. Let me have the honour of leading Miss Eversfield to her thrice happy lover."

He offered his arm, and they walked towards the conservatory. What could the father do? It would have appeared uncourteous to have refused this commonplace piece of civility.



"My dear Car, where are you going?" said Lady Westover anxiously, as they passed her.



"Sir Hector gave Miss' Eversfield into my charge, to put her safely into other hands," was the reply, and they went on.

The night was beautiful, balmy and warm; the moon shining bright and tempting for a stroll. On entering the conservatory, they found it deserted. Most of the guests were on the terrace—some at cards, others in the music-room.





"Oh, Miss Eversfield, how glad I am to be able to say a few words to you alone! Am I then to congratulate you?"

"How can you ask such a question? You know I am miserable." And tears began to flow down her cheeks, which were again so pale.

Much was murmured in her ear; we will not write it here. They talked, or rather he whispered in her ear, for she was speechless.



"Essaying by his devilish arts to reach

The organs of her fancy."





"I must go," she suddenly exclaimed; "if they find me alone with you they will all be so angry;" and she sighed heavily.

"Am I never thus to see you again ?" he asked, "for when we again meet, what will it matter then to me? You will be another's." Car answered not; her heart sunk between fear of Lawless's entrance,





and unhappiness at the idea just presented to her mind.



"Once more let me be happy in your presence, beautiful creature," Lord Glendinnon continued, grasping tightly her trembling hand. "This night-nay, start not, what can be the harm?- let us have a stroll by the river's side, when all are at rest. By the little side door, which is easily opened, you can issue forth, and then, lovely one, for the last time we may meet in peace."



"I cannot no, I cannot," she faltered, struggling to free herself from his grasp. "And how should I know when to join you? The men in this house sit up so late, and are always strolling about these hot nights, with their cigars. No, it cannot be."

 'But it must," was the determined answer; "watch from your window, and I





will be underneath it, when I know that the coast is clear. Say yes, or here will I detain you till your intended arrives, and then

""



"Oh, let me go, I beseech you," said Car, really alarmed, and anxious to escape, hearing footsteps approach.



"Never, till you say yes.

"Then, yes; but oh, how wrong it will be!"

And, feeling her hand free, she rushed from the conservatory, and reached Lady Westover's side. Her Ladyship at first did not perceive her; but when she did, she was quite alarmed at the appearance of the girl, so pale and ill she looked.



"I feel faint, Lady Westover, but it will soon pass," she gasped; "don't notice it.”



And there Lawless and Lady Millicent found her, and then she tried to rally, and to talk and laugh; and thus, suffering





G





tortures of mind, the evening passed, and the wretched girl at length found herself alone in her room. Fenton was soon despatched, and also Lady Millicent, who had come from Lady Westover, to find out if there was really anything the matter with Car, and armed with a draught to compose her nerves, which was eagerly swallowed by the patient; and then Lady Millicent was requested to leave her to repose.

"Of course I feel regularly done," she said; "such a day of worry it has been. Oh! Milly, Milly, there is not a more unhappy wretch in the world than I am."

hear

'My dear Car, I am really very sorry to you say so. Do you dislike so very much the idea of your engagement? If so, for mercy's sake, before it is irrevocable, speak out. When I thought it was only from absolute folly that you rejected so





excellent an offer, I urged you to accept it; but now, God forbid that I should take upon myself so fearful a responsibility as to urge your doing such violence to your feelings."

"I do not wish to retract from my engagement," Car answered, despondingly; "I suppose I must be married some of these days, and it matters little to whom I shall be tied for life. It is not that which makes me feel so miserable; I have made up my mind to that misfortune. But good night, Milly; I had better go to bed."



"Well, I will go," her friend replied; "but let me entreat you, Car, to weigh this matter well in your mind, and remember you will be committing a deadly sin if you think of marrying Captain Lawless without a proper feeling towards him."

"A deadly sin will it be?" Car exclaimed





when the door closed, and she was alone. "Oh, what a wretched, wicked girl I am!" she continued, wringing her hands, “and I am about to commit a deadly sin-at least, so people would call it; not that I dofor what harm can there be in taking a quiet walk with a man old enough to be my father? My father, indeed!-a very different man to him, although I verily believe dear Papa is very little older than Lord Glendinnon. Heigho! would that I had never seen that superb creature! But it will be soon over; this shall be my last exploit of fast fun. How bright the moon shines!" she added; "far too bright for what I am going to do-a deed of darkness I suppose it really ought to be called." And she proceeded to equip herself in a large shawl, and tied a lace veil of the same material over her head. "However, I suppose I shall be like Milly when fairly in





for it, and become a starch piece of propriety as she is becoming."

The night was so sultry that Car sat by the open window, leaning her head upon her hand. She watched the glorious moon as it sailed majestically in the heavens. She felt the delicious air, perfumed by the odour of flowers, wafting upon her cheek, and for a brief moment in that poor girl's existence, softened feelings exercised their influence upon her mind.



"How beautiful and calm is all around!" she thought; "I could almost turn sentimental, and even try to quote some of the bothering poetry those tiresome governesses, after much hard work, have drummed into my dull brains:—

"Oh Good, oh Great beyond compare,

If thus Thy meaner works are fair;

If thus Thy glories gild the span

Of ruined earth, and sinful man,-





How glorious must those mansions be

Where Thy redeemed shall dwell with Thee!'



Ah, yes; those mansions that other world. What a dreadful idea that is to me, that world into which nothing, they say, but the pure in heart can enter. Not that I think much about it,-what's the use? Oh, yes, what's the use, to such a hopeless, reckless girl as I am?"





And for a moment she clasped her hands in despairing energy, whilst her eyes still fixed themselves on the bright and then unclouded luminary which shone so brilliantly upon her.



Whilst she continued to gaze, a small black cloud made itself visible on the hitherto spotless horizon, slowly advancing towards the large, calm, chaste-looking moon, Car watching its movements with avidity-her heart beating fast, as she saw it sailing nearer and nearer, threatening so





soon to cover the light with its dark shadow.

In another moment the moon would be overcast; but just then her eyes had fallen on another object the form of a tall man advancing and then all around was darkThe black cloud had hidden all the

ness.

light of the moon.





CHAPTER VI.



THEY were soon strolling by the river's side, that lovely spot which art had assisted nature in rendering most alluring as a retreat to the inhabitants of the Castle. Smooth walks, flower-beds, grottoes, and gardenseats interspersed in picturesque arrangement. Lord Westover's luxurious taste was conspicuously displayed in the arrangement of this his pet spot, of all the beautiful grounds with which he was surrounded.

And here was Car Eversfield, the daughter of a father whose honest heart could never have imagined it possible that any child of





his could thus have forfeited her self-respect, hanging on the arm of a man whose insidious words were dropping like poison in her ear, confessing without reserve that she loved him; yes, him, the husband of another, and she the affianced bride of a man whom, in cold blood, she intended to marry and to deceive.

This is too horrid to think even possible; but, alas! alas! so it is, we fear too often, in this our world lying in wickedness.

Poor, miserable girl! she had forgotten all save the sensations of the moment; and there she now sat, drinking in his words, which echoed a response in her heart. All around was light as day; for the moon, as if impatient of her temporary extinction, soon sailed from beneath the black cloud, and lent her aid in rendering conspicuous the persons of the girl and man who thus acted this perfidious part.





"Oh, Lord Glendinnon, why do you you know I hate him," pro



speak thus?

tested Car.





"Then why distract me, beautiful creature, by this promise to be his wife? Why not wait? Who knows but that those hateful chains which now bind me to a detested marriage may be soon severed? I have heard tidings of Lady Glendinnon's health, which tell that it is most precarious; and then, lovely one, all will be laid at your feet-my hand, my heart, my all. And, sweetest, in the meantime

""

Car started. What noise was that she heard? Her quick ear had caught the sound of footsteps from behind - the rustling of branches, as if some one was retreating in that direction.

"Lord Glendinnon, do you hear anything?" she said, pressing still closer to his side.





"Nothing, fair one, but the beating of

this little heart."

"But I do," she said, starting up, and standing in an attitude of listening. "My ears are never deceived. Some one has been here listening to our words, and I am lost yes, lost for ever. Oh, if ever my





father hears of what I have done, he will never forgive me. Let me go; who knows it may not be him or Norman, and thenoh, do not detain me," she cried, impatiently; "do not follow me close; I had better go alone."

And so saying, with inconceivable swiftness she fled away, looking neither to the right nor to the left, relaxing not her speed until she reached the side door, and then, entering noiselessly, she found herself at length within her chamber, and throwing herself across her bed, she well-nigh fainted from terror and agitation.





It was very late, or rather early in the morning; nearer three than two. At eight they were to be at the station; little time had the weary and now miserable girl for sleep or refreshment.

Dragging off her shawl, in which she had enveloped herself, she determined not to undress. She felt neither strength nor will for the exertion.



"What matters it? Every one will soon know the whole story. Whoever it was must have heard and seen everything; and though, after all, there was not much harm in what was either said, or done, how dreadfully it will sound when it is whispered about with all the additions illnature will invent. And, gracious heavens! Papa, what will he say? and Mamma, who already considers me a disgrace to the family? I know it was that wretch, Norman Lawless. It is just like a deed





of his. Well, that affair is at an end with a vengeance. But oh! good gracious, what will he do?-murder that dear man, or perhaps wreak his vengeance upon me. As far as I am concerned, the sooner he blows out my brains the better; it is all over with me. I always said I was doomed to perdition. Oh, what shall I do? — what shall I do?"



And sobs and tears such as she had never before shed now burst from her overcharged heart. "Wretched, unfortunate girl," she might indeed have called herself.



At length exhaustion caused her to fall asleep; and when Fenton entered the room at seven o'clock, she found her young lady in a deep slumber, lying dressed on the outside of the bed, her hair all dishevelled, her face pale, the traces of tears still lingering on her cheek,—a very different spec





tacle to the radiant Hebe usually personified by the beautiful Car Eversfield.

"What can have happened?" Fenton exclaimed, as she looked with affright on her young lady, and saw the shawl and veil lying on the ground. "Where has she been? What mad prank has she been playing? There is something very wrong in the wind, I feel certain sure; and Thomas says he has just taken a letter into Sir Hector's room, from Captain Lawless, who started suddenly as soon as it was light. But here comes the General - Oh, Heaven protect us, how wild he looks!"



"Car," said the father, as he entered the room, in the sternest of voices, "what is all this about?"



"Miss Eversfield is asleep, Sir Hector; I found her lying in this strange way; I

believe she has never taken off her clothes this blessed night."





"Fenton, you may go; I will ring when Miss Eversfield wants you." And striding up to the bed, he saw his daughter, his beautiful favourite child, already so changed in his sight and his affections.





Car," he exclaimed in a loud voice, at the same time shaking the sleeper by the shoulder-for the girl slept the heavy sleep of utter prostration "Do you hear me? you must get up this moment." Car opened her eyes in bewilderment.

"What is the matter?" she exclaimed, starting up quickly, as her eyes opened and fell upon her father's stern face. "Oh, Papa, Papa, forgive me ; " she cried, “don't look at me thus, or I shall die."

"Die, you wicked girl; you have long been dead to anything like decency or reason. Get up, I say, and let us begone before worse even happens." And he rang the bell.





Car sprang from the bed, and before he was able to resist she had flung her arms round her father's neck, and there tenaciously she hung, weeping piteously. With almost savage force he extricated himself from her clinging grasp, and then sinking on her knees, she cried, "Tell me what have you heard; I know I have done wrong, but not such wrong as I believe you imagine." "Read this letter," he said.

And, still on her knees, she read these words:





"Dear Sir Hector,

"Your daughter is free. Ask her for an explanation of her conduct. Never more will she be molested by the solicitations of the man 'she hates and detests,' and who, in his turn, now rejects her as utterly unworthy of his love.

"Faithfully yours,



"NORMAN Lawless."





"Papa, I will tell you all. Last night, it was so fine, I was leaning out of my window. Lord Glendinnon passed; he stopped and asked me-no doubt it was merely in joke- to come out and take a stroll. I foolishly accepted his offer. We walked a short time by the river. That is all, really all,-wrong I own, but not so bad as to create all this anger. Norman, I suppose, acted the part of eavesdropper. Papa, speak to me; I shall lie here at your feet

until you say that you will not always be

so very angry with your poor Car, who henceforth will be so good."

She crawled towards him, holding by the skirts of his coat, and looking up at him beseechingly, her long hair hanging over her face and neck, her tear-stained face raised with so piteous an expression that a casual beholder would never have recog





H





nised in the sorrowing Magdalen, Car Eversfield.

But the General looked not upon her. He stood, that fine gallant officer, mute and motionless, his face livid, his teeth clenched, and there was an expression in his eye which made one quail to behold.

He thought no longer of the girl before him that creature he had idolised. No; his thoughts were with the man who had dared to bring this child of his as a lowly suppliant for mercy at his feet-he who beguiled her to commit an act of impropriety, to say the least of it, which, if known, would tarnish her reputation for ever of that man who had destroyed the fair prospect which was opening before her, the protection of an honourable husband. Could he live and endure this without chastising the offender? Yes, he must go to him, and tell him that he was a fiend and a scoundrel - that





with his blood he must answer for his

perfidy.

But then again - and he looked down at the poor crushed thing at his feet-that would indeed drag her conspicuously before the world, and destroy her for ever. No, even that satisfaction was denied to him ; and then he thought of his sick wife, and the unfortunate man struck his forehead with his hand. As it was, what would be her mother's disappointment when he brought the disgraced girl back to her home when that very morning she would have received the joyful tidings of Car's engagement to Captain Lawless? There was no alternative; he must just take her back, and leave his vengeance to God.





So, heaving a groan-like sigh, he said to Fenton, who entered the room,—



"Fenton, get Miss Eversfield ready to start at eight. You must see there is a





great deal wrong here; but you have been so long with Lady Julia, that, as a friend, I trust you to say as little as possible on the subject."

And the good woman, almost as distressed as her master, proceeded to raise poor Car, who just now was a real object of pity.



She passively submitted to all she did for her, even to swallowing a cup of coffee which was administered.

Just as they were about to start, Lady Millicent entered the room in her dressinggown, to make her last hurried adieus.

Car was all ready equipped to depart, her thick veil down, and she had not a good view of her face, but was struck by her silence, and the convulsive manner with which she embraced her friend at parting. There was no time for questionings; but Millicent felt chilled and sad, and





it was with a strange oppression at her heart that she joined the breakfast-table after. She looked around for Captain Lawless, but he did not appear.

Presently Lord Westover sententiously exclaimed, "I miss my beautiful neighbour in her usual place by my side this morning, for I have lately been so accustomed 'vivre près de la rose,' that it will be hard to exist without her. It certainly is one of the first-rate luxuries to breathe even in the atmosphere of beauty; to me it has become almost indispensable. Car Eversfield has quite spoilt me-heigho!" sighed this old Sybarite of a Lord, "I suppose Lawless was of the same opinion, for he is off too."

"I thought he was not going till after breakfast," said Lady Millicent.

"I had a note saying that he had remembered an engagement which rendered it imperative for him to be in London at





an early hour. He started before the Eversfields."

Lady Millicent instinctively looked at Lord Glendinnon. He was reading his letters, but she fancied there was something altogether different in the expression of his countenance; and as he looked up suddenly, and met for an instant her scrutinizing gaze, he evidently gave symptoms of some confusion.



"Good Heavens! has that man been doing any more mischief?" she thought; and then her thoughts reverted to Car's extraordinary demeanour, and Fenton's pale, distressed face. "He is such a wretch; nothing is too bad for him; and as for Car

""





And, with anxiety at her heart for the fate of one for whom, from long intimacy, she really felt an interest she could not shake off, Lady Millicent left the breakfast





table, but not before she had heard Lord Glendinnon inform Lady Westover that a letter just received called him also away, and therefore he could not remain, as he had wished, a day or two longer.

And certainly Lord Glendinnon felt, when he drove away from Westover, that he had played the fool rather too far, and that he had indeed "put his foot into it."





CHAPTER VII.



WE must crave pardon for making a long digression, but for the furtherance of our story we are forced to entail upon our readers what we know by experience is a most provoking interruption to the interest which may have been previously called forth.



It cannot, however, be helped; and we only promise to get over the episode with as little delay as possible.

Lord and Lady Sunderland lived principally at a country seat called Bellemont, in the county of. Their family consisted of two daughters, and a son the youngest of the family.





Education was her Ladyship's mania. Masters of every description were forced upon her son and daughters in London; and when in the country, added to talented governesses, professionals were engaged to pass any vacant time they had to bestow at Bellemont.



Although the young ladies were not devoted amateurs in the science of music, their brother, the young Lord Sinclair, was a fanatico of the most enthusiastic description. At the earliest age the Opera had been his greatest delight, and its celebrities the heroes and heroines of his imagination. This feeling was more than ever nourished by the acquaintance formed in his own home with a singer then in the full tide of popularity.



La Rosalinda, as she was always designated, was a scientific as well as most delightful performer, her character unim





peachable; and Lady Sunderland, having previously made her acquaintance and ascertained the respectability of her antecedents, had at length induced the cantatrice to make an annual visit to Bellemont in the capacity of instructress in singing, for the time being, to her two daughters.

A most intimate friendship had sprung up between the family and this talented Italian; and Lord Sinclair, then still at Eton, looked forward to his summer vacation with still greater zest, always anticipating the delight of La Rosalinda's presence, to say nothing of her enchanting music. And thus several seasons rolled by.



The family were all assembled at the luncheon-table one Saturday afternoon. "Mother," Lord Sinclair exclaimed, as he





joined the party, "I have just been introduced to the new curate old Bennett has left in charge of his flock whilst he is abroad for his health."



"He is a man of good family, I believe," remarked Lady Sunderland.

"Yes, I hear he is an Honourable,— brother to Lord Curraghmore, an Hibernian viscount. I can tell you that he is a regular specimen, in appearance, of a wild Irishman."



"That certainly does not sound clerical,” was the general remark.

"No, indeed, nor does it look clerical; but, however, I like the fellow; he is fond of music, I find, and that shows that he is worth something."

"Has he a brogue ?"

"Yes, he has just a soupçon of one, but it is not offensive to the ear, and his voice struck me as 'most musical, most





melancholy.' There is something peculiarlooking in the fellow altogether. I quite long to hear the service performed tomorrow."

"Is he handsome ?" the ladies asked.



"Well, I suppose you all would say so, men and women think so differently upon those subjects. I think he looks as if he ought to be caught and put up in a cage to be tamed; however, you will all be able to judge for yourselves. I asked him to dinner," he added, "as you desired,"-turning to Lord Sunderland,-"but he excused himself, saying he was so occupied, having only just arrived."

"I hope he is a gentlemanly person," Lady Sunderland remarked.

My dear mother, he is an Honourable: will not that at once vouch for his gentlemanly qualities?" Lord Sinclair laughingly answered.





"I fear, not quite," Lady Sunderland replied; "I wish all the aristocracy bore that distinguishing stamp."



There was no small curiosity excited in the ladies, the next morning, to see this new preacher who was to occupy the pulpit of the old and, we must allow, very humdrum clergyman who had for so many years officiated in the village church.

The Ladies Sinclair, their brother, and Signora Rosalinda always sat in the front of the organ-loft, taking a conspicuous part in the service of the choir. Most kind and interested had ever been the distinguished performer in the singing of this little secluded church, and the strains which were heard each Sunday, whilst she remained at Bellemont, issuing from this simple house of God, might well have drawn crowds of entranced listeners. This particular Sunday Lord Sinclair had been more than





ever anxious that the music should be

first-rate.

The organ was a splendid one- scarcely, indeed, in accordance with the interior of this rustic church;-a gift, of course, from the Bellemont family, and upon which it was the young Lord's greatest delight to play for hours every day.

It was whilst practising the Voluntary which he himself intended to perform the next day, that he first encountered Mr. Valentine Lawless, the new curate, whose vehement delight at the performance propitiated at once the young fanatico.

"We will surprise this wild man of the woods!" Lord Sinclair exclaimed, whilst practising that evening the chants and music for the morrow; and, finally, having himself accompanied the Rosalinda in the solo of a splendid anthem she had promised to sing, he exclaimed, "How sorry I





am that I cannot watch his movements whilst you are singing, Signora. How he will ever be able to remain at his post I know not; he appears to me as if he could not, by any possibility, keep still when excited, so restless and impulsive he looksalways ready to spring forth when roused by any peculiar feeling."



The service had not commenced when the Sunderlands entered the church. Every eye immediately fixed itself upon the vestry door, watching for the appearance of the new curate.



It opened at length, and a tall young man walked forth and ascended the reading-desk; young indeed he looked-so far, more so than they had anticipated; and when he rose from his knees, and his face was wholly revealed to the congregation, what an extraordinary countenance was





disclosed! The effect was almost startling to the beholders to look upon, - those dark, wild eyes, the strange impassioned expression denoting itself in every feature; and when his lips at length moved, and at first, in subdued accents, he commenced the service, the liquid cadence of his voice. thrilled to the heart of every listener. It sounded like music to the unaccustomed ears of those who had so long heard nought but the monotonous croaking drawl of their worthy minister.

The service proceeded, and the effect of this charmed voice did not decrease. It rose high and clear during the singing, and sunk to the most touching devotional pathos whilst offering the various prayers, petitions, and confessions of our beautiful service.



He prayed, as if he felt each word, for himself and others - apparently wrapt in





sincere devotion — the world seemingly forgotten for the time being, and the enthusiastic spirit wafted to heaven.

But soon earthwards it came.



Rosalinda stood conspicuously forward in the gallery and commenced the anthem.

She had been previously ordered by young Sinclair not to allow her voice to be heard in the previous chants. Even in the Te Deum she was implored not to utter a sound.



It was his fancy that the wonderful organ of the far-famed cantatrice should burst forth unexpectedly and electrify the new auditor; and Rosalinda, always kindly indulgent to all the whims and wishes of her talented young friend and enthusiastic patron, entered keenly into all his plans, and prepared to exert herself to display the full treasures of her glorious voice, and to sing as well as if a large audience, con



I





sisting even of royalty, the nobles of the land, and the most critical of dilettanti, were assembled to listen to her strains, instead of the simple rural congregation now met within this country church.



Ah! poor Rosalinda! how little did she imagine, whilst her rich notes gushed forth, swelling into thrilling fervour as the sense of the holy words touched her soul with their devotional meaning, and her eyes were raised with real piety to Him whom in song she thus addressed, that her fate was about to be irrevocably fixed.

Lord Sinclair would indeed have been satisfied could he have watched the curate whilst the anthem was proceeding. At the very first intonation of Rosalinda's voice he might have been seen to start violently, his eyes to dilate; and as the strains proceeded, a visible trembling was perceptible throughout his frame, his face becoming deadly pale.





Fortunately, the attention of all within those walls was wholly occupied by listening to the anthem, so that few remarked the extraordinary agitation of the young man as he stood at the communion-table; but when the last notes of Rosalinda's accents died away, and he was obliged to commence the service, those who listened could scarcely have recognised in that altered, trembling voice, the rich, manly tones which had just before so deeply impressed every hearer.



Rosalinda was not allowed to join in the hymn which followed.



No, that would spoil the grand effect of the anthem, Sinclair insisted; and although the great artiste would willingly have united her voice in the simple pious song which followed -for hers was a gentle Christian spirit, poor Rosalinda's - she followed obediently the orders of her young directeur,





and echoed only in her heart those artless words of praise.

The clergyman did not appear in the pulpit until the hymn was ended, and as his pale face again gleamed forth upon the congregation, when rising from his knees after a lengthened prayer, there were few hearts within the church this day which did not beat high with almost nervous anticipation of the sermon.

The young man commenced in a low and uncertain tone, but soon he began to warm with the subject, his eyes brightened; some colour took the place of the extreme pallor of his cheeks; animation, tempered with devotion, gave expression to his countenance, beautifying it to a marvellous extent, and then such a flood





of eloquence flowed from his lips.

His language partook of the oratory which is so indigenous to those of his





country who are at all gifted by nature with eloquence. It is impossible to describe what was the effect upon all assembled that day, except by saying that it seemed to take away the breath of those who listened as if their very lives hung upon the words of one who might have personified in his looks his eloquence, his vehement earnestness-a John the Baptist preaching, in the wilderness, words of such life-giving import.



And there was one whose ears and heart drank in every word which issued from this young preacher's lips-who, seated in the organ-gallery, now pressed forward with clasped hands, distended eyes, her whole being abstracted from aught on earth but the one object before her.

As he proceeded, warming to an energy which communicated itself to every member of his congregation, the impassioned





Italian, the accomplished actress, seemed almost to identify herself with the preacher, her agitation becoming so uncontrollable.

No, it was not acting, that hysterical burst of tears which shook her frame, and threatened to become but too conspicuous. No, it was the genuine impulse of a nature which hitherto, with strange self-command, kept in strict control, was in itself full of the deepest, the profoundest passion.



Yes, like a mighty current long restrained, it burst all bounds, and swept down at once every barrier.

Yes, poor Rosalinda, thy fate was sealed.





CHAPTER VIII.



BRIEFLY will we pass over the events which so quickly followed this eventful Sunday.



Valentine Lawless from this period became an habitué at Bellemont. The young Lord Sinclair became infatuated with his society-never satisfied but in his companionship.



Not only were his musical talents a passport to the young Lord's favour, but in out-door sports the curate proved a most valuable and experienced adjunct.

The young man had been born and bred





up in one of the wildest parts of Ireland, his home the dilapidated old castle of his ancestors, which had almost become uninhabitable owing to the poverty of the family, each successor for many years past having, by his reckless habits, further impoverished the property.

Valentine and his brother, the present Viscount, some years older than himself, had spent their early days at Castle Lawless with their widowed mother, receiving little or no education. Lord Curraghmore, with a handsome person and wellsounding title to his name, managed to make his way in the world; but Valentine for many years led a life of perfect neglect, although to him it was one of thorough enjoyment.



A wonderful genius for music marked his earliest days, and with a very slight knowledge of the science, which he had





learnt from his mother, he soon became an almost self-taught genius, spending the time, when not employed in the sports of the field (so abundantly supplied both in fishing and shooting upon the estate), in singing and playing upon an instrument which, though none of the best, he considered in the light of a friend and companion.

The only person, save his mother, who took the slightest interest in the youth, was a Protestant clergyman who had a living in those wild regions, and who beheld with regret the wasted existence of this most peculiar boy. Soon discovering what talents lay uncultivated in that enthusiastic soul, he kindly did what he could for him; and poor Lady Curraghmore, as long as she lived, assisted to the utmost of her limited powers in cultivating young Valentine's mind, and in fostering the incli





nation he decidedly manifested for the Church.



She died when her son was about seventeen; and the rector, with the greatest difficulty, obliged his brother who could now well afford it, having made a rich marriage to defray the necessary expenses for Valentine's career at Dublin College.





Brilliantly he passed through the ordeal, and finally was qualified to take orders; and Lord Curraghmore further exerted his influence to obtain for him a curacy in England: and thus it was that we find Valentine Lawless a temporary inmate of the Bellemont Rectory.



Lord Curraghmore had married a rich woman, a Scotch heiress, the only daughter of a confirmed invalid, who had for years never quitted his Highland home.

There the future bride of the handsome Viscount had spent her days, her mind





narrowing within the contracted circle in which she existed. She was plain in person, and in no way ingratiating in manner, -no alluring object, save to the penniless fortune-hunter, who must, in marrying this unattractive woman, only look upon her golden charms. Her enormous wealth was the talk of the whole country side; and Lord Curraghmore, who really was in a most pitiable plight, and who scarcely knew which way to turn for a shilling, his fine property encumbered to the very last farthing, his castle falling into irremediable decay, listened with eagerness to the glowing accounts of the possessions of this golden goddess.

He made up his mind, at any rate, to try his luck in this quarter, and, spunging upon the resources of a friend, managed to get himself franked down to the moors adjoining the Highland territory of the rich Laird Macpherson.





Splendidly handsome was the Viscount at this period, his address most insinuating, his voice seemingly attuned to allure a fair one's senses; but the question was, to gain an entrance into that old grim, grey house.



However, by some clever manœuvre he did contrive to throw himself in Miss Macpherson's way; and although, at first sight, a natural shudder passed through his frame when he thought of her as his wife, a counteracting remembrance soon checked the feeling which had attempted to hold him back from pursuing his scheme.

"What else can I do, destruction staring me in the face?" was his inward ejaculation.



So, resolutely he set himself to the task, endeavouring to ignore the identity of the red hair, high cheek bones, and freckled skin of the Scottish maiden. No, indeed,





nothing else could interpose between the yawning jaws of the Queen's Bench.

So at it he went, improving this unforeseen opportunity to such an extent that he felt quite certain that, notwithstanding that iceberg of frigidity represented by the grand representative of many tens of thousands a year, there still existed a vulnerable spot in that cold heart which, if once ignited, might soon spread into a flame of fire.



And so it proved. We will not enter into the particulars of this uninteresting courtship; suffice it to say, that the father most opportunely died, leaving his daughter, who had been of age some years, sole mistress of her hand and heart, which was bestowed without the slightest hesitation on Lord Curraghmore.



Her fortune, certainly, with the true cautiousness of her nation, she caused to be strictly tied up, so that her poverty





stricken Lord could never make ducks and drakes of it; but with a degree of generosity wonderful in such a woman, and displaying how completely her heart was concerned in the matter, she determined, if possible, to raise the fallen fortunes of her husband's house by endeavouring by degrees to pay off the encumbrances which rendered his really fine patrimony so completely valueless. And so they married. A good wife, in her way, the lady made to a most indifferent husband; and, moreover, notwithstanding his many failures in his conjugal conduct, she still retained towards him the only tender feeling she ever bestowed on any living person excepting her young son, who, with all her stern coldness of temperament, she weakly idolised and indulged.

But to return to the poor younger brother, Valentine, whom no splendid mar





riage had enriched, but who lived upon the niggardly pittance the Viscount doled out so grudgingly by the purse-bearer, his wife. A new era of his life had indeed commenced, - — one of ecstatic bliss it seemed

―

to the enthusiastic young man.

The hours of each day seemed too short for the joy they contained. What strains of melody were for ever filling the spacious halls of Bellemont!



Music, that food of love, that vehicle of passion, seemed never now to cease.

We have promised not to linger over this episode; in a few words, therefore, we will say, that Rosalinda, who had passed unscathed nearly five-and-thirty summers,

who had turned a deaf ear to proposals which might have raised her to a far different sphere to that of a public singer,

who had astonished the whole London

world by her frigidity, her almost un





natural repugnance to matrimony, devoting apparently her whole energies to the attainment of a certain sum which would render her independent and enable her to live in her own bella Italia, now succumbed, seemingly without a struggle, to the influence of this wild-looking youth, many years her junior.



Yes; when, at the expiration of the time when her services were engaged at Bellemont, she took leave of her friends, it was with anxiety Lady Sunderland saw her depart, wondering what would be the end of all this.



But the wonder was of short duration. Valentine Lawless had not appeared for some days, and soon they heard that he had engaged a neighbouring clergyman to perform his duty for a few Sundays.

All this looked ominous, and the Sunderland family, really feeling much affection











and interest in the Italian, were uneasy and uncomfortable about her. A letter soon arrived in the Signora's well-known hand, and it was signed



K



ROSALINDA LAWLESS.





CHAPTER IX.



ROSALINDA had indeed given herself and all her hard-earned gains, without a thought or scruple, into her young husband's keeping. She loved with all the fire and ardour of her Southern blood; never for one moment weighing the cost in any balance save that of her ardent feelings.

She had for some years inhabited a small bijou of a house in Curzon Street, an old aunt superintending her ménage, and acting as her constant chaperon at the Opera and every public place at which she was engaged to appear.

This cherished little domicile she left in





charge of the Italian relative, and immediately after the marriage the enamoured pair set off for Italy; Lawless having of course given up his curacy.

They had determined on spending at least a year abroad: what would afterwards be their career they never thought nor cared. The present moment of infatuation absorbed every idea of the future; they only revelled in their present world of perfect bliss.



Yes, the shutters of that well-known house were for the most part closed; the old aunt continued to occupy a small back room; and the opposite neighbours not a little missed the voice which, when summer came and the open windows were indispensable, burst forth in such gushing melody from the habitation of this renowned song



stress.

And it was quite a deprivation to the





star-gazers no longer to be able to catch glimpses of La Rosalinda, as she stepped lightly into her brougham, to be whirled away to her various rehearsals; to speculate upon and to watch her numerous visitors, from the black-bearded professionals to the coronetted carriages and stately ladies, who considered it no degradation to visit and patronise this gifted and most irreproachable singer.

All was stillness and solitude in the little baby-house of a dwelling, before always ringing with the rich notes of music and of song, so filled with every luxury and every sort of ornament, of virtu, and other embellishments, most of them presents from her numerous friends and admirers.



Yes, it was a changed spot, never again to shine with joy and gladness to poor Rosalinda.





The year passed by, and then another, and another. We find the married pair changed, not that their love had grown cold; no, that still remained fresh, as on the day which united their destinies; but the stern realities of life were pressing upon their minds, particularly upon that of the wife. The cares of the world, the uncertainty of riches, seemed facts, which began by degrees to impress themselves upon their minds.

On the Lawless's arrival in Italy, Rome was selected as their place of residence, and, like many other newly-married people, they began imprudently.

Lawless, without the slightest knowledge as to the value of money, finding himself for the first time in his life in the unlimited control of what he considered interininable treasure, spent it ad libitum.

Yes, he must have everything of the



-





best for his beloved. A palazzo, servants, horses, carriages. His name and rank in life were at once passports to his admission into society, and his wife's celebrity enhanced the value of his position.

Little heeded the élite then congregated in the eternal city, that the Honourable Mrs. Lawless had been an Opera singer. Her reputation was well known as an artiste of unexceptionable character; so soon she became the rage in all societies, as well as her husband, whose voice, cultivated by his admiring wife, soon became almost equal to Rosalinda's.

And so time went merrily on, the couple little heeding that on its wings also flew the hard-earned professional gains, — the work of years.

Rosalinda had not the heart or courage to check the happiness of her adored young husband: she certainly lived in a state of





morbid infatuation, poor soul! only trembling lest by a word she might break the spell which bound him to her. She remembered the disparity in their ages, -he only twenty-four, she so many years his senior.

No, she could not tell him that her money was melting away, in a manner that soon. began to terrify her with the thought as to what would be the end of all these reckless doings.



However, at last the day of reckoning came. A child was about to be born, and Rosalinda's reason seemed to be restored when she looked forward to what would be the fate of the unborn babe.



She spoke at last; told her husband that, if they went on thus, her last thousand would be gone, and implored him to break up this expensive establishment and return to England, where he at least might pursue his profession, and she-oh, how ready she





would be to work, to slave for her beloved one, could that be permitted now that she had merged into a grade so much higher. Valentine Lawless, impulsive upon every subject, at once succumbed, with vehement protestations, and expressions of deep contrition for his thoughtless extravagance, his selfishness, in thus having impoverished his generous, his beloved wife.

"I will retrieve the past, my dearest," he earnestly protested. "It will be my part to work, whilst you will bring up our child, my beloved Rosalinda. You will not mind living with me, even in the quiet country. My brother has influence; I will ask him to exert his interest to procure me some Church preferment. I can take pupils. I am ready to do anything in the meantime. Forgive my thoughtlessness, thou angel of goodness! and in a few years, perhaps, I shall be able to pay back to you all that I have so wickedly spent."





Poor Rosalinda! it grieved yet delighted her to hear those earnest words. For herself how little she cared for money: it was for him alone that she was covetous.



There was just time to reach England before the period when Rosalinda's child was to be born; and hastily making their preparations, the Lawlesses commenced without further delay their journey, so trying to one so soon to become a mother.



However, they reached Dover in safety; but Mrs. Lawless felt so ill that it was deemed expedient that no time should be lost before she reached her home, and leaving her husband to arrange about the luggage and to follow by the next train, she started at once for Curzon Street.



What a return to her once little gay nest of peace and prosperity! Her troubles had already commenced, the pangs of labour had begun to assail her, and soon in in




creasing anguish she was calling forth the name of the one on earth whose charmed presence she fancied could soften every pain.



She was lying on a sofa, listening for every sound of footsteps approaching, looking anxiously towards the door, hoping to see her husband enter, when it opened, indeed, but only to admit her maid, holding in her hand a telegraphic message.

It was from Dover, and ran as follows:"A fearful collision on the railway at Mr. Valentine Lawless dangerously injured; lies in a hopeless state at the station." "I must go to him!" shrieked the poor wife, as she started from the sofa; but of course that was impossible.

The old aunt started immediately, but she never saw Valentine Lawless again alive; and ordering that his remains should be brought to Curzon Street, she returned





to find her niece in a state baffling all description.



A little daughter was at length born, and the mother lingered a few days, but brain fever, not to be subdued, came on. She continued in a state of delirium till a few hours before her death, and then calmly she listened to every particular of her husband's death; the blessed hope of again meeting him depriving death of all its terrors.

"He loved his Saviour," she murmured, "and taught me to love Him."

Rosalinda implored her aunt to be as kind to her child as she had been to her, and then feebly pronounced the words "Lady Sunderland,-would that I could see her!"



A messenger was immediately dispatched to Carleton Gardens; she might be there. Most fortunately her Ladyship was in London, and lost no time in repairing to Curzon





Street; in fact, she had read the account of poor Lawless's death in the papers, and expedited her return to London in order to look after Rosalinda, for whom she felt the most heartfelt pity.



As she entered the dismally closed house, she paused in the hall and said to the servant, "I will remain here till you have ascertained whether Mrs. Lawless can see me," at the same time opening the diningroom door; then, starting back in horror as a black coffin, standing upon tressels in the middle of the small room, met her af frighted gaze. It contained the corpse of the once brilliant, joyful Valentine Lawless, and there it remained waiting to be accompanied to the grave by that of his devoted wife.



Lady Sunderland had never before, during the course of her smooth existence, felt so utterly shocked. Death and its grim accom





paniments were unfamiliar to this daughter of prosperity. She was quite overpowered when she was led to the bedside of the dying woman, and looked upon that countenance, so changed by grief.

Rosalinda had scarcely breath remaining to speak. She could only press the kind lady's hand in her feeble grasp, and turn her eyes imploringly first upon the baby who lay on a pillow by her side, and then upon her.

A few spoonfuls of wine were administered, and there appeared a rally in the departing woman. She essayed again to speak.



"That poor child,—will you see that she is cared for?"



"I will, I will, Rosalinda, believe me," sobbed the Countess. "I will never lose sight of your child, this I solemnly declare to you, dear Rosalinda."









Then, indeed, I shall depart in peace," were the last words Rosalinda ever uttered. She sank rapidly after this, and before Lady Sunderland quitted Curzon Street, the gifted Italian, once the popular idol of the day, calmly breathed her last sigh.

*

*



*



*



It was a spectacle that made every heart bleed to watch the two hearses as they wended their way to the cemetery, in which husband and wife were interred in one grave; so that in death they were not divided.



Much sensation did the mournful catastrophe create for a brief space in the wonder-loving London world.



The house and its contents sold at a fabulous price. Everyone was anxious to become a purchaser of something which had belonged to poor Rosalinda. This was advantageous to the little orphan; and the





Sunderlands, who commissioned their own man of business to superintend the affairs of the deceased mother, announced that a surplus remained, which, with the produce of the sale and some remaining invested money, would serve to maintain the old aunt and the child in comfort.



Lady Sunderland would not allow the trinkets to be sold, and many a valuable jewel, presented to the talented singer, she took charge of, until the little Rosalinda should be old enough to wear them.

The poor old Madame Rinaldo, overwhelmed with sorrow, for her niece had been to her more than a daughter, could only be roused to anything like exertion by the sight of the baby. London was repugnant to her feelings; for her country she panted; but Lady Sunderland felt that her promise to the dying mother was imperative. If the aunt went to Italy, the child





must remain in England; she must never lose sight of the orphaned babe.

So at length it was decided that Madame Rinaldo should take up her abode in a pleasant cottage, inhabited by a respectable widow woman, in the village of Bellemont. Lady Sunderland, with prompt kindness, saw to everything herself, made every arrangement for the reception of the heartstricken Italian and her charge.



And there the little Rosalinda was nurtured with the fondest care by her doting aunt, whose only thought was centred in administering to the indulgence of every wish and whim of this wayward child; for as years went on, the little girl gave every symptom of a nature which, had it been properly managed, might have prevented much of that self-will which cost her many a pang and trouble as she advanced towards womanhood.





In vain Lady Sunderland and her daughters admonished the aunt to be less injudicious in her partiality towards the child, to correct her when fits of naughtiness rendered coercion necessary.

No, she could not say harsh a word to this most idolised child, who, naturally clever and talented, with an ear for music, and a voice promising to equal that of her mother, grew up to the age of twelve years, ignorant, wild, and wholly ungovernable.

At this time Madame Rinaldo died suddenly, after an illness of a very few days; and now what was to be done with Rosalinda ?



Lady Sunderland considered it her duty to write to Lord Curraghmore, to communicate to him the knowledge of his niece's position; and proposed that, as there was a schoolroom, and a governess in his house, educating his two daughters, perhaps Lady



L





Curraghmore and himself would have no objection to admit under their roof this orphan niece.

The request was immediately negatived. Lady Curraghmore objected to a strange child being domesticated with her daughters.

Lord Curraghmore advised that the girl should be sent to some school, "and then, perhaps," he added, "we may occasionally allow her to visit us during the holidays."

But to this proposal Lady Sunderland felt many objections. Linda, for so she had been always called, was the last child in the world to be left to the tender mercies of a school. What would become of her, with her excitable feelings and temper, thrown amongst so many,- left to the guidance of those who would neither understand nor tolerate her?



Poor Rosalinda's child! and kind Lady Sunderland's heart was heavy, for she felt





the utmost interest in the little girl, notwithstanding her many faults, her often repulsive manner, even to those who were so kind to her.



"Mother," said Lady Elizabeth Sinclair, "let us take charge of Linda, and engage a governess to educate her; in this great house they will be no trouble to anyone."

"I have also thought of this plan," Lady Sunderland replied; "and it would be one of pleasure instead of trouble, if Linda was a more engaging child; but she is so troublesome, and, moreover, so little affectionate to those who, I must say, have ever been kind to her."



"Yes, I quite agree with you," Lady Elizabeth replied; "but I believe it will be the only way to make anything of the child; she has been so spoilt by that poor, weak old woman, that she requires regular discipline. I am quite ready to assist in





How unlike in

this work of reformation. disposition Linda is to her poor mother, who was so gentle, so lovable, notwithstanding her fierce-blooded Italian extraction."



Lady Elizabeth was the unmarried daughter of the family. A spine complaint had rendered her deformed, and her health had contracted her mental vision of things in general, souring her temper and causing her to form her opinions severely, and dogmatically, making no excuses for the infirmity of human nature. She had lived little in the world, therefore her ideas were not derived from experience, and were often uncharitable, although, at the same time, she meant well, and was sincerely anxious to do rightly and religiously in all things, and as certainly

"To be good and disagreeable is treason to virtue,"





so we fear in the latter category we must include Lady Elizabeth Sinclair.

In this case the best feelings of her heart were called forth; for not only did she feel really great interest in the child, but the memory of her mother was one of the greenest spots in her painful existence.

What would she not do for Rosalinda's daughter?—that bright being whose remembrance was for ever hovering over her recollection, and which even still possessed the power of exciting in the dulled, disappointed heart of the deformed woman, sensations of past delight and hope?

Yes, the little Linda should be henceforth her charge. Poor Lady Elizabeth! little did she foresee the troubles which would attend the labour of friendship, rendered thus difficult through her own stubborn and narrow-minded views and contracted heart.





CHAPTER X.



LINDA had, on the death of Madame Rinaldo, been staying with a kind widow lady, who had for many years been domiciled in the village; she had always been kind to the little girl, and in the absence of the Bellemont family had offered a temporary home to Linda. In a pitiable state was the forlorn girl when she could realise the idea of her cara zia's death, for so she called her fondly loved old aunt.



Her vehement, ill-regulated feelings burst forth with a degree of violence which frightened the gentle and not very strongminded Mrs. Turner, whose patient en





durance of any trials, which in the course of her life must have befallen her, had hardly prepared her for such passionate outbreaks.



Violent emotion, however, generally rapidly exhausts itself; and Linda, after a fearful access of despairing sorrow, soon became first calmer, and then by degrees her restless habits recommenced, and her enjoyment of perfect liberty and idleness returned.



Mrs. Turner, who was much esteemed by the Sunderland family, was in correspondence with Lady Elizabeth upon the subject of Linda, and it was by their especial request that the girl remained with her until they had matured their plans for her future.

Mrs. Turner thought, with a sinking sensation at her kind indulgent heart, of the cold, uncompromising, haughty exterior of





Lady Elizabeth. How would she ever be able to foster tender feelings in the heart of that strange, wild girl? And Lady Sunderland, kind and gentle as she was, she would have little voice in the matter. No one ever interfered with Lady Elizabeth, or presumed to dispute her opinion.

An invalid for years, compassion for her infirmities and sufferings had rendered it habitual to all with whom she lived to succumb to her every wish, and to her opinions. upon every subject in which she chose to take a part. And this abnegation to her rule became, as time went on, somewhat of an infliction to her parents, particularly to ner mother, and to all who came within the province of her imperious rule.

And in her keeping, Linda, with all the peculiarities of her temperament, the disadvantages of her hitherto indulged bringing up, inheriting probably much of the ex





citable feelings of her father, the Southern blood of her mother, soon found herself firmly grasped.



Lady Elizabeth was delighted with the idea of the task before her, she saw it was one of difficulty; so much the better, the greater the exultation at the success of the undertaking.

Rarey's heart never beat so proudly after having vanquished a vicious young colt, before pronounced unapproachable, untameable, than did that of Lady Elizabeth at the thought of the triumph she anticipated in taming this wild young girl; and Lady Sunderland, glad to see her daughter so brightened up and interested, rejoiced in the prospect of little Linda's arrival, although the kind lady rather winced when she listened to the stringent preparations they were making for her reception.

Three dull rooms in a remote part of





the house were prepared for the governess and her pupil; a sinister-looking German maid was engaged to wait upon them; and although such instruments of torture were not in the same demand as formerly, yet Lady Elizabeth chose to have them there, in the shape of backboards, dumbbells, reclining boards, &c. &c.

It was a fine summer day when Linda came to Bellemont. Lady Elizabeth herself arrived in the carriage to escort her to her new home.



Mrs. Turner had been all the morning endeavouring to comfort and reconcile the poor child to the trial which awaited her.



"Remember your mother's wishes, dear Linda," she said; "it is as she wished. The assurance of Lady Sunderland's care for you made her depart in peace."

"Yes, Mrs. Turner, I do think of this ; if I did not," and her eyes flashed, "do





you think that anything would tempt me to go? No, I would starve first; and, Mrs. Turner, it is not that I should mind so much going to live with Lady Sunderland, but Lady Elizabeth will be my mistress, and I never can like her. I shall be shut up in that gloomy house, and, however, it does not much matter, I shall soon die, like the poor little redbreast I caught and put into a cage."

"No, my dear, you will not die; people do not so soon die of their own free will; it is God's will alone that can deprive us of life; and, Linda, pray bear in mind that to die in peace you must be good whilst you are on earth. I love you very much, dear child," Mrs. Turner continued, as she drew Linda affectionately towards her, "and I rejoice to think what opportunities you will have of improvement; and believe me, that it depends entirely upon





yourself whether your lot will hereafter be a happy or a miserable one. Not that I expect that you will like the present change, but it will all work for your good; remember these words whenever you are inclined to murmur or rebel."

Just as this were spoken the Sunderland carriage drove up, and Linda, pale and trembling, beheld Lady Elizabeth's face at the window.



"If you please, ma'am, Lady Elizabeth Sinclair is at the door; she has called for Miss Linda, and does not wish to get out."



Poor Linda! there was nothing to be done but to obey with as little delay as possible.

Mrs. Turner made ready the passive child, the pale, mute, tearless anguish of whose expression haunted her imagination for many a day.





Lady Elizabeth received her with the stately coldness—one of her systems formed for her general demeanour towards the victim she had caught. -a few formal words, unanswered by Linda, the only notice she took of her. They returned at once to Bellemont, and Linda was desired to follow her conductress to the schoolroom, and after traversing long passages and narrow staircases, they arrived at a door, which when opened displayed a most scantily furnished apartment, occupied by a lady, the very counterpart of this forlorn apartment.

"Miss Straightways, I have brought you the pupil, whom I trust you will be able to train into better ways. At present, I fear you will find her most troublesome, ill-behaved and ignorant, but we must hope for the best; and remember, if she





is not amenable to reason, coercion must be used. I shall always be at hand to assist you in every way."

And thus saying, Lady Elizabeth left the room.





CHAPTER XI.



WE are not going to enlarge upon the events of Linda's schoolroom days. The effects they produced upon her character may easily be imagined from the two sketches we have given of her, now as a child, and then as she was, when she first appeared before our readers, at the age of seventeen. The life of constraint and total want of tenderness had operated upon a nature inherently proud and impetuous, but which at the same time, in the deep recesses of her heart, yet unfathomed, possessed much of nobleness and generosity.





Poor girl! she soon became aware that there was nothing for her but to succumb





to her new life; and with a degree of selfrestraint, wonderful in such a peculiar temperament, she seemed to have made up her mind doggedly to endure the hated routine to which she was subjected, and perhaps, faute de mieux, applied herself diligently, though without relish, to her studies.



Lady Elizabeth was really delighted and surprised at the wonderful progress she made in every branch of education; but it was part of her system never to unbend or to praise, therefore poor Linda was unrewarded by a word of commendation. Wholly secluded in the dismal rooms allotted to herself and governess, her only recreation the dull daily walk, except, indeed, on Sunday, when on leaving church she was permitted to speak a few words to Mrs. Turner, the poor child's countenance was perceptibly changing from vivacious restlessness to gloomy despondency.





It was a life of vacuum certainly, — no one to love her, who had been so fondly loved, so spoilt, and indulged. Lady Sunderland would fain have expostulated, and did, indeed, once or twice dare to remark:

"Elizabeth, don't you think Linda studies too hard, she looks so pale and dull? Perhaps if she came a little into the drawing-room, it might be better for her health and spirits."

"My dear mother, pray allow me to judge what is best for Linda; at present she requires much breaking in; a year hence we may think about what you propose; till then, allow me, without interference, to proceed in the endeavours I am making for the child's improvement, unless, indeed, you would prefer taking the whole charge and responsibility of the business upon yourself."



Lady Sunderland, thus rebuked, said no



more: all she could do was to pay stealthy visits to the schoolroom, taking with her any little treat of fruit, sweetmeats, and small gifts, calculated to please the childish taste of the prisoner; kind words, kind looks were also bestowed upon her,welcome than all, to the famished heart of the poor child, who craved for something more warm and tender than those she received from her two keepers, Lady Elizabeth and Miss Straightways.

more



PASSAGES IN THE LIFE OF





And Lady Sunderland also had words of hope to give.

"Soon, Linda," she would say, "when Lady Elizabeth considers you have made good progress in your studies, you will not be so much confined to the schoolroom; and I really must ask Lord Sunderland to inquire about a pony for you to ride; would you not like one?"

Linda's pale face brightened into a glow





of pleasure. "Oh, so very much!" she answered; "but I fear that can never be," and she sighed heavily. "Lady Elizabeth would never allow such a thing;" and Linda looked more than ever despondent, remembering the many rides she used to take; such fun it always had been! scampering about on anything she could find, sometimes donkeys without a saddle-she had even mounted cart-horses, if she could get nothing better-but how kind Farmer Watson used to be, in lending her his nice black pony!

However, time went on, and Linda's sallow countenance at length attracted the attention of even Lord Sunderland, who in general almost forgot her existence, so seldom did she cross his path.

"What is the matter with that little Lawless?" he asked one Sunday after church, having by chance happened to turn his eyes upon her during the service, a





strong light on her face from the opposite window, at that moment, displaying conspicuously her ghastly countenance.

Nothing is the matter with the child," Lady Elizabeth replied in an affronted tone of voice."I am happy to say she is making immense progress in her studies; and really her talent in music almost equals her poor mother's."

"I tell you what, Elizabeth," answered the Earl, "she appears to me to be 'making immense progress' towards the grave. I never saw a more wretched little piece of humanity; and my advice is (unless you wish to get rid of her) that her studies should be wholly suspended for a time. Why, what do intend her for a governess?"

you

"My dear father, you do not understand the state of the case. Linda was wholly ignorant when she first came here, she required coercion."



፡፡





"No doubt, no doubt; but then, at any rate, she looked healthy and sprightly, and now, such a woe-begone face I never beheld it quite startled me in church. My lady has hinted to me something about a pony for her. I shall give orders that one may be instantly procured, and I insist upon the girl riding out for two hours, at least, every day- and until then let her have a holiday. Thomas shall always go with her. I do not want to have the little thing's death laid to my door.— And why does she not run about the house, and come into the drawing-room in the evening, as you and Julia used to do?though she is so small, I hear she is nearly fourteen."





Lady Elizabeth was highly offended: however, Lord Sunderland, when once he insisted upon anything, was as obstinate as his daughter. So from that day forward





a change was destined to take place in Linda's miserable existence.



Lady Elizabeth, even, was rather alarmed when the state of the case actually dawned upon her. Linda was really in a most delicate state of health, requiring, the doctor said, total rest and change of air.

A delightful plan was formed by kind Lady Sunderland.



Lord Sunderland had a beautiful shooting lodge in the Highlands, and there Linda was to go, accompanied by Mrs. Turner, who readily entered into this charming plan. Miss Straightways, quite as tired as her pupil of the imprisonment at Bellemont, took that opportunity of giving up her situation, and, until Linda's return, no other governess was to take her place.

The manner in which Linda received the intelligence of this arrangement was quite in accordance to her peculiar character.





"Linda," said Lady Sunderland, as she seated herself upon one of the hard chairs in the schoolroom, "I am come to tell you something, which I think you will like to hear."



Linda opened wide her dull eyes - but no expression brightened her countenance. She looked void of sense or feeling, her mind was really in a most morbid state.

"Miss Straightways wishes to quit her present situation, and as Doctor L. considers that you are not very well just now, and require a holiday and change of air, Mrs. Turner" here a look of something approaching to interest was perceptible in the fixed expression, and Lady Sunderland proceeded," Mrs. Turner has been so kind as to say she will accompany you, for perhaps two months, to a lovely place of Lord Sunderland's in the Highlands of Scotland. Shall you like this plan, my dear?"





Not a word was spoken; Linda's face became, if possible, even more than ever livid; there was a perceptible heaving of the chest, and then, before Lady Sunderland could prevent it, the girl had fallen flat upon her face on the ground in a fainting fit. Long were they before the exhausted little creature revived, and when at last she opened her eyes, and could speak, her hand sought that of Lady Sunderland, and then she whispered:

"Was that true, or have I only dreamt it? -I do sometimes fancy, and dream very extraordinary things."





"It is true, dear child, — quite true.” The girl started up, lifting her clasped hands on high, straining her glance upwards, as if entranced, and then she sank again on her pillow, hysterical sobs and tears shaking her fragile frame with frightful violence.

All those who witnessed this scene were





alarmed; even the hitherto unimpressible Lady Elizabeth was dismayed and terrorstricken.

Was this her work? conscience began to whisper.



Fortunately at this juncture Mrs. Turner arrived at Bellemont to receive further directions upon the subject of the expedi tion. She was brought to the sofa on which Linda was lying, and seeing the nervous state of the poor little girl, she begged to be left quite alone with her for a short time.



Linda soon felt the influence of the soothing sensation of being alone with one with whom she was perfectly at her ease, and leaning on her friend's bosom, listened to words almost too full of joy for her to endure in her present exhausted

state.

But they were cautiously spoken, — and





their meaning seemed to circulate through every vein with a feeling of rapturous delight, quite affecting to behold in that usually poor, sullen, woe-begone, attenuated child. Mrs. Turner insisted upon undressing and putting Linda into her bed, promising not to leave her; and making her swallow a little hot wine and water, soon had the satisfaction of seeing the poor girl fall into a sound sleep.

A week after this the journey to Scotland commenced.





CHAPTER XII.



NOT until they were fairly in the train could Linda believe that it was really true this fairy-like dream of happiness. As long as she felt herself still in one of the Bellemont carriages, she trembled lest the next moment the horses' heads might be turned towards her hated home.



But, oh! the delight of the escaped captive as she felt herself whirling rapidly far away from her grim tormentors! And when that joy began to calm down in a degree, then commenced the new rapture of wonder at her novel situation, and all that she saw around her.





Everything was novelty to this girl who had never before left the neighbourhood of Bellemont. But Linda's amazement arose to an extent quite indescribable, when at length the mountain scenery burst upon her sight, her life having been spent in an English county which boasted not of even a hill of any magnitude.

The lodge which they were to inhabit had been a favourite resort of Lord and Lady Sunderland's in their earlier days, when their children were all young; for some years it had been deserted by the family, Lord Sinclair only occasionally visiting it for fishing or shooting, for he had spent a great portion of his time on the continent, and was not a keen sportsman at any period of his life. The lodge stood on a platform of heather surrounded by the highest mountains, and we must borrow other words than our own to bring before our readers





the scenery of the Highlands in the most pleasant and graphic manner.

The mountains, in their desolate grandeur, shut the lodge in from all more outward view, showing in fine weather but the play of light and shadow on the many-coloured rocks; the sun sending down its rays with fiery fervour, and in winter only dreary heights slated with snow.



There appeared to be neither egress from, nor approach to the lodge, though a track did lead to it, winding in a zig-zag pass through the mountain chain till it abruptly ceased at this heather-clad opening.

The interior of the lodge was comfortably though plainly furnished, and bore evident signs of having been occupied by ladies. It even boasted of a piano-forte, which, with considerate care, Lady Sunderland had caused to be put in order, although the tuner had to come some fifty miles to under





take the task; and there was also to be found a great deal of music of one sort or another, although, perhaps, it was not of the newest kind, for where did ever Lord Sinclair go, without leaving behind him such traces of his predominant passion?

It was late in the evening when they arrived, but Linda waited not for the morning; she had already slipped out and begun to climb a hill, the delicious air, the perfume of the heather, the joy of her heart, giving strength and energy to her whole frame.

"Libertà! Libertà! Libertà!" she shouted loud and clear, as she paused and looked around in rapturous delight.

The next morning, notwithstanding the fatigue of the journey, she was up and out, to the amazement of the old Scotchwoman who acted as housekeeper at the lodge, and who looked with curious amazement at the little dark sprite who flew so eagerly





before her into the open air, and with the agility of a goat was soon to be seen climbing up some steep acclivity.

Far and wide did she roam, and returned not till hungry; but flushed with enjoyment she at last made her appearance before Mrs. Turner, who was beginning to be disquieted at her long absence.

Linda's life was now one long dream of perfect enjoyment. A little sure-footed pony had been provided for her use, and on it she passed the most part of every day, disdaining the guidance of an old man, the husband of the housekeeper, who had been deputed to be her constant escort. After she had once been shown some of the intricate paths of the mountain passes, and had listened attentively to various descriptions of routes, and of those which it would be safe to avoid, she imperatively forbade the old man to follow her.





Mrs. Turner began to feel that she had taken upon herself an anxious charge. As day by day health and strength began to usurp the place of languor and weakness, so did the indomitable will of Linda increase and display itself. Affectionate and fond as she was of the good lady, she felt in no sort of awe of her, heeding what she had said by way of expostulation and reproof, as little as the murmuring of the mountain breezes; and poor Mrs. Turner soon found that it was no use trying to curb this selfwilled girl, who, now all joy and animation, stopped her mouth with kisses whenever she attempted to lecture or even scold her.

As time went on, more and more independent did the little maiden become, and poor Mrs. Turner spent most anxious hours, always alone, thinking she was indeed doing an act of real penance in having left her cheerful, chatty abode for the total





solitude of those dreadful mountains (the good woman had not a spark of romance in her composition).

Linda was never at home; in rain or sunshine she would sally forth, and the poor lady lived in a state of constant terror for her safety. Filling the pockets of the jacket she wore with a large sandwich, or some cake, seldom or never did Linda return to dinner, and when she did appear she was nearly tired out, and glad to go to bed at the earliest hour, to catch a few hours of sleep before sunrise, when she was always up, and had generally climbed a high hill before breakfast time. But what a change had this wild life wrought upon the wretched-looking girl who had left Bellemont the picture of approaching atrophy!

It is not to be supposed that the scanty fare which she took with her, when setting



N





out on her daily pilgrimage, was the sole meal of which she partook.

No; Linda had made many friends; soon there was not a cottage or farm-house within many a mile of Glencairn in which she had not made friends.



She was looked upon as a species of curiosity by these simple folk, and the girl, entering with avidity into the novelty of their ways, delighted in receiving their attentions, too glad of the drink of sweet milk so hospitably offered, the delicious oatcake and new-laid eggs, her keen appetite rendered so doubly acceptable.



She had nothing to give in return for their hospitality but a song, and having one day unconsciously broken into a ditty whilst sitting resting by the side of a large open fireplace, she was surprised, suddenly raising her eyes, to observe with what attention she was listened to by an old





woman who was seated at the opposite side; her knitting had been dropped, and the dulled eyes of the crone were steadfastly fixed upon her face.

"Do you like hearing me sing?" Linda asked.



"Ay, ay; gang on, gang on; it's like the angels in heaven."



Linda, thus encouraged, began again; and now shetried to sing her best, really flattered. So seldom had she been praised, that even the applause of this withered crone incited her to exertion, and soon the kitchen was filled with more audience. All within had approached to listen to sounds such as they hardly could conceive to be human. And from this time Linda knew with what coin to pay her entertainers. A song was always at their command, and soon her fame spread far and wide in this wild district; well known and welcomed by all was she, though





who or what she was they neither knew nor cared-some fairy sprite, perhaps, they deemed her, with that voice of hers, which could not belong to a wee body like hers, unless she was indeed a spirit.



But the simple folk in these unsophisticated regions seemed at once to distinguish the superiority of the class to which this queer-looking little girl belonged, for she was treated with the utmost respect by all.



Not an eye that rested upon her amongst the people, far and near, but lighted kindly, and was followed by a Gaelic benediction; the best seat in every kitchen was presented to her, the pony was led in state to some shed or stable, a fresh egg was put by for her, and fresh cakes were prepared in hopes of a visit from the little kelpie, who received every attention with a dignified condescension amusing to behold.

It was new and pleasant to her feelings





to be thus considered; her innate pride, which had been so crushed and mortified during her stay at Bellemont, began again to circulate in her veins, and gave certain importance to her demeanour, little in accordance with her petite stature and childlike appearance.



ears.



How important Linda felt as she sat in some cotter's abode, dispensing her favours and her songs to its admiring inmates!-far more proud of the sensation she there excited, than in future days when her voice elicited the admiration of more cultivated





CHAPTER XIII.



POOR Mrs. Turner was really in what is called "a fix." Linda was becoming more and more unmanageable every day.



The mountain breezes seemed to keep her in a constant state of intoxication. Who would have known the joyous, wayward girl, pleasure actually dancing in her bright eyes, to be the Linda of the Bellemont schoolroom? With cheeks now gently tinged with colour, flashing eyes, and dimpled mouth, she seemed to tread the air. When for a short interval within doors, she could not sit still: her movements were ever a dance.





In her mountain rambles, Linda had come in contact with more than one merrymaking. And what would Lady Elizabeth's feelings have been had she seen her protégée, as she often might be found, mingling with a rude group of Highlanders, and, having divested herself of her riding petticoat, taking from them a regular dancing lesson, cracking her fingers, and with the utmost vigour executing the Highlandfling, with energetic spirit echoing the shouts and whoops of the sturdiest? Her steps redoubled in swiftness and activity as the pipes set up their liveliest drone.

Even Mrs. Turner's hair nearly stood on end when she heard at first from Linda's lips some accounts of her exploits, but latterly the girl had become less communicative. She became afraid, from the horror-stricken looks of her companion, that What if she were to

she must take care.





write to Lady Elizabeth, and that her fun should be brought to an awful close?

One day the air was so delicious, at the same time so invigorating and enticing, that Linda had imperceptibly extended her rambles farther and farther, and in a totally different direction to her usual beat; she was little aware, indeed, how far she had wandered.



At length she began to think, "What if I have lost my way and cannot get home?" She had reached a path up the rocky sides of the hill, which based a river's side, and up she went, higher and higher, the surefooted pony carrying her in safety up this perilous ascent.

When the summit of the hill was gained, there was another and more secure path to be seen, which led down to a more cultivated scene, fields of grass and grazing cattle, and in the midst stood a fine family





mansion, the first object of the kind Linda had yet beheld in Scotland.

The house was surrounded by trees, and not far off flowed the picturesque river.

As she gazed, she beheld a crowd of men assembled on the banks, and soon she discovered that they were drawing the water with nets.



She began to descend from her elevated position down the safer path leading at once to the river.

"I must see what there will be in that net," she thought, as she watched the men spring into a boat, taking an enormous net with them, and a rope attached to it, with a wooden handle, which those on shore grasped; the boat then was pushed off, the men dropping the net as they proceeded, until they again approached the shore, some way from whence they had started. Then some of the crew jumped

I





on land, and commenced drawing the net towards the shore.



Linda by degrees had approached quite close to the scene of action, too deeply excited to remark, except casually, this large assemblage of men who were standing watching these proceedings. She had, without any scruple, pushed her pony's head between them so as to command the best view, and was quite unconscious that she had become an object of curiosity to two young men, not Highlanders, who, in rough fishing dresses made of coarse tartan, and Glengarry caps, were superintending the trawl, and were wonderingly observing this curious little apparition.



"What animal is this ?-neither fish nor fowl-something indigenous to your mountains, I suppose?" remarked one to the other. "I don't know what it is, or where it came from," was the reply.





At this moment, amidst yells and shouts, the net was hauled on to shore.

Such a load it carried!- such myriads of trout, pike, and char soon gasped upon the shore! Such a sight for Linda! It was indeed to her a miraculous draught of fishes, and in ecstasy she clapped her hands, and at length, not being able to contain herself, slipped off the pony and was standing in the midst, never heeding her little steed, whilst she stooped down to examine the shining, panting multitude of the scaly tribe scattered in such fabulous profusion around.



Linda's dress consisted of a green tartan petticoat and black cloth jacket; her hair was all packed closely in a net, underneath a large brown straw hat. Her costume was not particularly becoming or picturesque, but, nevertheless, a pair of flashing dark eyes looked quickly into





the face of the speaker who accosted her,

saying

"And who are you, little oddity?"

"Who am I?" she said, haughtily; "and pray, who are you?"

A burst of laughter followed the speech; and now Linda's eyes were curiously scanning the two young men, and, with her quick perception, immediately she perceived they were none of the usual class she had hitherto met in her mountain rambles.





"And English, too," she thought; "dreadful creatures, and gentlemen; and I do so hate both gentlemen and ladies!" And Linda turned round quickly to look for her pony, anxious to get away as soon as possible.

But where was the shelty?-where, indeed! The little animal, left to itself, unheeded by all, and frightened by the shouts and yells of the gillies, had turned its head





homewards, and after, we suppose, a little deliberation, had finally galloped off.

Linda looked about her at first with a sort of haughty defiance, for the laugh of the young men was ringing most disagreeably in her tenacious ears; but presently a change came over her countenance, and she exclaimed, "Oh, where is my pony?"

"It has certainly disappeared," one of the youths answered, still laughing, “and I suppose we shall see you, too, vanish in another moment," he continued, "for of course you are a brace of fairies."

Linda began to be much discomfited. Turning fiercely towards the youths, she said, "I daresay you know well where it is; you have sent him away, or hidden him. I see you are both mischievous and bad." And she stamped her foot in impatient distress.

One of the gillies stepped forward, and, as well as could be made out by his Gaelic





tongue, said that he had seen the pony gallop off, and had tried to catch the rein, but the shelty was too quick for him.



"Too quick for you, you stupid fellow!" Linda exclaimed, her eyes flashing fire; and then, a look of despair clouding her countenance, she added—

"Then, what am I to do?"

These words were followed by a burst of tears.

The two gentlemen were both very young-one quite a youth, of perhaps nineteen years, fine, handsome, and tall; the other appeared rather older. He now approached the little girl.

We must remind our readers that, although Linda was fourteen, she looked some years younger, so small in stature was the girl, and her face such a diminutive oval.

"Don't be unhappy," he said; "we will take care of you, and send you home."





"But my pony, him?" she sobbed. "Depend upon it, he will take care of himself. But where do you come from?" "I live at the Lodge of Glencairn, miles and miles off."





what will become of



"Well, never mind; we'll get you back, if we pack you off on a bee's wing," the other interrupted.



But Linda shrank from him, although she could scarcely keep her eyes off his bright face; and yet she seemed to draw closer to the elder, whose pleasant voice and soothing smile gave her more confidence. The other, she thought, though so handsome, looked so mischievous, and was laughing at her so cruelly.



"You must return home with us," the elder one said, "and then something will be managed about getting you back; but is it not very far off?"





"I suppose it is, for I have been out ever since I don't know when; and Mrs. Turner," she exclaimed, clasping her hands,-"Oh, what will she say?'



"Yes," said her tormentor, "when the pony arrives without you, she will, of course, think you have been killed, and then what a pretty row there will be!"

Again Linda began to weep. She was now almost exhausted; no food had she tasted, excepting a hasty mouthful at breakfast, and it was now evening. She was completely subdued; and at this moment, what with hunger and agitation—without heeding the ceaseless banter of the handsome youth,—she was glad to lean confidingly upon the "kind man," as she mentally called him, whilst they walked towards the mansion.



And when arrived there, she was too much subdued to look around at the curious old





hall, in which a table was already laid out with a substantial meal, the young laird having despatched a message some time before, to order dinner to be in readiness on their arrival.



Linda without hesitation took off her hat, and, notwithstanding her vexation and anxiety, not only about her pony, but about poor Mrs. Turner, commenced eating with the sharpened appetite of her mountain ride.







"Well done, sprite!" exclaimed the handsome bad one, as she had already christened him; "I see you can eat, at any rate, and do not exist upon the food of fairies. Now, what will you drink-whisky, claret, or Guinness's stout?”



Bring me some milk," she said, turning to a servant in attendance; and then, casting a glance of disgust on her host, said





"Do you think I ever drink those nasty things?"

There was something most piquante in the little girl's countenance and demeanour, and her airs and graces greatly amused the young man.

Her face was no longer pale, and the flush added brilliancy to her dark eyes. Her manner, off-hand and rude as it was, partook not of vulgarity; on the contrary, it was with the very high-bred air of one privileged to assume it, that she spoke and acted. Having gained strength from an excellent dinner, she began to be anxious to depart, and, turning to the "kind man," she said, "Now, pray see about taking me home."



"You ought to ask me," the other said, "for perhaps you are not aware that

'I am monarch of all I survey."

"Oh!" she answered, laughing superci





liously, "then, pray, do you go and do what I say."

"I won't stir till you tell me who you are, and where you come from. I want to hear all about it, you little curiosity!"

"All about it!-how inquisitive you are! Well, I am staying with Mrs. Turner, at Lord Sunderland's Lodge. Oh, poor Mrs. Turner! What will she do if shelty returns without me?" she added pathetically.



"Oh, never mind the old lady; she'll get over it when you return."



"Yes; but if she tells Lady Elizabeth?" "Oh, you will then be just whipped, and put to bed without your supper. Nothing more, I dare say, will happen."

Linda looked daggers at the young man, who worried her as he would have worried one of his small terriers.

The other now spoke:

"But perhaps you will not mind inform





ing us the name of the young lady we are so anxious to serve?"



He was really curious to discover the whereabouts of this odd child, and soon saw that it would not do to bully her out of any information.



"My name! do you really wish to hear my name?" she answered, drawing herself up grandly. "Well, then, I will not mind telling you. My name is Rosalinda Lawless." "Rosalinda what?" inquired emphatically the younger man. "Lawless, I said," was the impatient



answer.





"Rosalinda Lawless!" the young man murmured, musingly. "Who the deuce can she be?" But in another moment he had started from his seat, and asked—

"Was your father's name Valentine?" "Ah, povero Padre!" the girl ejaculated, in a softened manner; "yes, his name was Valentine."





The youth approached Linda, and, in a mock-heroic manner, knelt on one knee before her, opening wide his arms, and saying



"And I am Norman Lawless, your own cousin! The blood of kindred bubbles in my heart at this discovery. Come to my arms, fair relative, and let me press upon thy lips a kiss of cousinly regard!"

Little did the young man calculate upon the effect of this speech, and the proposal it contained. Indeed, he had rather been preparing himself for a hearty box on the ear from this dark fairy, who had hitherto looked so wrathfully and suspiciously upon him.



But Linda, in amazement, first gazed bewildered upon the youth as there he knelt, malicious fun sparkling in his blue eyes, looking so bright and beautiful.

The girl could discover nought in his





countenance, as it thus beamed upon her, but beauty and kindness; and into the chilled, void heart of the orphan girl a gush of warm, kindling love had rushed tumultuously.

He her cousin, that handsome youth! and he, too, of her own blood-really belonging to her! And in another moment she had rushed vehemently into the outspread arms, throwing hers round the neck of the now surprised though highly amused Norman Lawless, imprinting on his cheeks fond kisses.



"Holloa, cousin, this is more than I bargained for," he said, trying to extricate himself from her grasp; "but I am, nevertheless, mightily obliged to you for this warm reception, and very glad to become acquainted with my small cousin with the long name."

"Are you really glad?" Linda gasped, her eyes filling with tears; and then she added, in a voice so musical and plaintive





that even Norman felt slightly touched, as well as amused, "But you, I dare say, have never known what it is to have felt so lonely and miserable as I have been for so long; no one to care for me since I lost my povera Zia."



"Well, never mind; cheer up, my little woman," the youth replied: "I'll take care of you, at any rate, this evening. I will send old Mrs. M'Carthy, the housekeeper, to look after you whilst we go and bring the dog-cart round to the door, to take you back to old Turner. So cheer up, I tell you; come along, Asheton !"



And, patting her head as if she were a little child or a little dog, he departed, followed by his friend.





CHAPTER XIV. ·



LINDA Soon found herself in the dog-cart, seated by the side of her cousin and his friend, and a guide (necessary to direct them to their remote destination) in the seat behind.



So proud and happy she had never before felt; one near her to whom she could really claim affinity; no longer a little solitary being, standing alone in this large, cold, disagreeable world.

How she talked to her companion, who listened with wonderful interest to all she said, feeling a boy-like gratification and importance in hearing her rapturous ex





pressions of delight at his presence, particularly when he was informed that she was not quite such a baby as he had imagined her to be.



Linda, in the effervescence of her joy, did not scruple to tell him all her thoughts, -how cruel and tormenting she had at first considered him, and now, how kind and beautiful she thought he was! And to all this Norman smiled approvingly.

Flattery has a charm, from whatever source it may spring; and although quite aware that he certainly was a very handsome youth, yet it was pleasant to be told so, even by the lips of a child. At the age of nineteen he was indeed no mean sight to gaze upon:





"The belted plaid and tartan hose

Did ne'er more graceful limbs disclose;

His flaxen hair, of sunny hue,



Curled closely round his bonnet blue."





And at this period, before fierce passion had assumed therein its empire,



"A blither heart

Did never love nor sorrow tame."



But alas! alas! for the sunny days of youth and innocence!



Linda told all her story-how she had happily lived with the povera Zia, and then her wretched life at Bellemont; Lady Elizabeth's tyranny; her illness; and, finally, poor Mrs. Turner's kindness in accompanying her to Glencairn. Yes, poor, dear, kind Mrs. Turner;—and here, as before, Linda's heart sank.



But again Norman encouraged her, and oh! how comforting were his words.

Such a beautiful night, too, it was,the moon, in its fullest brilliancy, lighting up the splendid scenery on every side. Linda had never witnessed anything like





such a scene as this before, and was in a rapture of delight.

"Oh, this is Heaven!" she cried, "if it could only last. But, Norman, you will come again to see me?” she anxiously asked. "Your own little cousin. you will never now desert her, will you ?"

Words these were, spoken without thought; but oh! how prophetic - how ominous of the future!





Why, as to coming all this long way to see you, little woman, I fear that will be impossible. I go from Lough Rea Castle the day after to-morrow, to Oxford, my first term there. But I will not forget you, small coz. I will tell my father about you (your uncle, Lord Curraghmore, I suppose you know), and I shall try to soften my mother's heart in your favour; but, to tell you the truth, hers is rather a hardish concern, except towards me, and I





must say I have found her the kindest and most indulgent of mothers. Yes; you may depend upon it, Rosalinda (what a grand mouthful of a name!), that we shall meet again sometime or other: and in the meantime I promise not to forget you. So cheer up, little one."



Linda's tears had begun to flow, and Norman Lawless really felt sorry. The bad seed indigenous to corrupt nature, fostered by a bringing up of injudicious indulgence, had not yet sprung up and choked any good there might be in his heart. There were softer feelings in it at this time, which the influence of the world, the flesh, and the devil had not deadened. His naturally strong passions had not yet flashed forth with all their future intensity. He was at this moment on the brink of manhood, not having quite lost some of the better, more innocent feelings





of boyhood. Norman's sympathies were more touched than they had ever been before, by the demeanour of this newlyfound relative.



There was, indeed, something wonderfully quaint and uncommon about this extraordinary girl, so like a child in appearance, but so eveillée in all her feelings,-so different from any other girl with whom he had ever come in contact. He thought of his two sisters, large-boned, red-haired young ladies, brought up in the strictest manner, without a word to say for themselves - how different from this child of nature! — and he began to remember all about her: the argument he recollected hearing between his father and mother some years ago, about some cousin who was left alone in the world; how his father advocated the idea of taking charge of her, and allowing her to be educated with his sisters, saying





he really thought poor Valentine's, his only brother's child ought not to be neglected by her natural relations; and he now thought with shame of his mother's coarse, unfeeling speeches, and utter refusal to admit her under her roof.



How it had all ended he had quite forgotten and never inquired, taking no interest whatever in the matter, and being well accustomed to fracas between his parents, on which occasions his mother always came off victorious.



What a curious coincidence, that he should have thus met in this out-of-the-way place, this small bone of contention, and that she should be such a curiously taking little thing!



The young man declared within his heart that he would always befriend her. He little calculated how soon, in the vortex of pleasure and dissipation into which he





speedily was plunged, the vividness of his desire to befriend poor Linda would decrease, although, in the years of absence which elapsed before he again saw her, the remembrance of this night's drive, and the strange-looking companion at his side, her eyes flashing upon him in the moonlight, and the deliciously-toned young voice which, either in speaking or song, rang in his ear, was never entirely forgotten, but recurred now and then to his memory, always with a pleasurable sensation.



During the long trajet to the mountain Lodge, Linda, in the effervescence of her delight, had broken out into many a snatched song. She had addressed the glorious moon, as it sailed above, revealing so many splendid points in the scenery through which they passed, with a burst of melody, and the beautiful air, "Vaga Luna," was executed in a manner which astonished and delighted





the young men, and brought to Norman Lawless's recollection the half-forgotten but tragic story of his uncle Valentine having married an opera singer, and their early deaths. But this circumstance only enhanced the interest with which he listened to her daughter's beautiful voice; and Linda most willingly was made to "sing on" whenever she came to the end of a song. But now her heart began to sink; she was nearing her home. Soon, oh soon, all this happiness would be over, and he would be gone!

"Norman, you will come in for a little while; I cannot part with you yet," she cried, as the carriage wound round a path in the mountain which she knew would bring them at once to the Lodge; "and you must make my peace with Mrs. Turner. She will be so angry, and I shall have such a scolding."

"Oh, yes; I'll humbug the old girl," he





cried; "never fear, little singing bird. Why, Rosalinda, your voice is the most beautiful I ever heard.”



"Do you think So, Norman? How glad I am! Shall I not practise hard to make it still better for you when we meet again? But, oh! when will that be?"

They were now before the door of the Lodge, and there stood the unfortunate Mrs. Turner, who, having heard for some time through the clear air the sound of wheels, was waiting in a state of breathless agony for the result.



Messengers had been despatched in every direction, for the pony had duly returned, bearing on its back only the empty saddle. Her terror had been so extreme, that now, when she saw the living form of her troublesome charge safely lifted out of the dog-cart, the reaction was too great; the poor woman had nearly fainted, and when revived she



P





was too rejoiced even to find fault with Linda, who was overwhelming her with caresses and excuses.



And, pray, who are these gentlemen to whom I am indebted for your return?" Mrs. Turner at length said.





"This gentleman," Linda replied, drawing herself up proudly, "is Mr. Norman Lawless, my cousin, Mrs. Turner."

"Bless my soul! how strange!" was the good woman's reply; and then the necessary explanations followed.





The young men were easily persuaded to stay supper. Already they found a blazing fire, and the table laid for the evening meal; for Mrs. Turner, hoping and expecting the return of Linda—allowing herself to be persuaded that she had only remained at some farm-house or cottage, and that the pony, impatient of delay, had contrived to get away

had calculated upon the ravenous state





of appetite the girl would bring with her, and prepared accordingly; so, with some hasty additions, a good supper soon made its appearance. In the meanwhile, her terror having evaporated, she began to look upon her charge with a less indulgent air.



"Miss Linda," she now said, "pray go and take off your riding-dress, and make yourself more like a young lady. I fear your cousin and this gentleman must have formed a very extraordinary opinion of you in every way."

And Linda, looking rather ashamed, immediately left the room, returning half an hour after, certainly looking a very different creature.



Her hair was neatly smoothed, and she wore a plain, well-fitting white dress (Lady Elizabeth allowed no ornaments of bows or ribbons) — her cheeks were still flushed by





the air and excitement of the day, and as she now again appeared, subdued, and quietly gliding into the room, demurely seating herself by the side of Mrs. Turner, her former companions would not have recognised her as the little sprite of the morning's adventure.

Yes; there she sat, her eyes fixed immovably upon young Lawless, as if she was engraving on her memory his every feature, and every expression of his countenance; the "kind man," as she had at first named him, forgotten, unheeded her whole soul wrapped up in the delight of this new possession of a cousin.

When they sat down to supper, she placed herself next to Norman Lawless, and occupied herself entirely in attending to his wants. How she pressed upon him the eatables and drinkables, scarcely touching any food herself. The young man was



-





evidently amused, and rather flattered, by the devotion thus shown to him, and, perceiving how it pleased her being thus employed, with a degree of forbearance unlike his usual manner, he did not repulse her exigeant attentions.



Mrs. Turner looked on, wonder-struck. This cousin of to-day seemed in a few short hours to have changed the whole character of this impassible girl; she who had never evinced any very warm affection towards any one certainly not since her old aunt had died and now her very expression was altered, tenderness beaming from her generally either fierce or sullen eyes.

But the good, calm-minded woman little knew what a strong current of affection was really pent up in the heart of Linda Lawless. The parting came at last. Lawless began to dread the scene so certain to ensue from the increasing excitement of the little girl.





"Asheton," he whispered, "go and see if the dog-cart is ready."

But Linda's quick ears had heard the order.

"Not yet," she implored; "just one halfhour more."

However, Asheton heeded her not. It was already nearly midnight, and a three hours' drive back was before them. At an early hour the next morning they were to meet the train, to start for England.

Linda's face grew paler and paler; and nearer and nearer she crept to Norman's side, who was rattling on, pretending not to observe her increasing emotion.

He began to wish himself well out of the parting scene, which he saw was about to ensue; for, though the youth had been surprisingly attracted towards his little newly-discovered relative, yet it was not in his temperament to imagine how such





ardent affection as that evinced by Linda could have been engendered in so short an acquaintance.

And it was, indeed, astonishing to witness. But we must remember that in her veins flowed the blood of two natures famed for their impetuous impulses.

Enthusiastic beings had been both the poor Rosalinda and her husband, the impassioned, the uncontrollably vehement Valentine Lawless.



And when we consider the position of this their child, with her inheritance of the self-same feelings imprisoned, restrained within her heart, panting for freedom, for affection, feeling herself isolated in the midst of those who she thought did not love her, who only nurtured her for the cold sake of charity (thus in her distorted fancy she deemed it), we may think it less strange that—suddenly finding, in so peculiar and





romantic a manner, a youth so gifted in person, with good looks such as she had never seen before; with manners which, though at first she thought them teasing, were so attractive in their sportive fun; and then hearing he was so near of kin to her, the desolate one, next to being her own brother-the idea should be so enchanting, so delicious; and that to the delight of this new feeling, the impetuous nature of Linda should succumb at once.



Then, when at length Mr. Asheton returned to announce that all was ready for departure, Linda's tears and sobs broke forth. In her own liquid language, to which she ever resorted in great sorrow, or great joy, she piteously bewailed herself; and at length Norman Lawless, sorry, but yet most anxious to get away-for he thought this excess of cousinly love rather too much of a good thing,-in short, a bore was obliged





this time (on a future day it was not thus kindly that he shook her off) gently to extricate himself from her tenacious grasp, and, affectionately kissing the little girl, to make a hasty retreat; on seeing which, Linda, uttering a cry of anguish, exclaimed, “Ah! misera me! e partito!" and threw herself despairingly on the ground.





CHAPTER XV.



It was a considerable relief to Mrs. Turner to remember that only ten more days remained before she and her charge were to return to Bellemont.



She had a troublesome time with Linda for a few days after this adventure; and the pony being unfortunately lamed after its flight from Lough Rea, the girl was forced to forego her rides.

However, after a day or two of hanging about, listless and unhappy, her only occupation and solace was music, which she had hitherto wholly neglected since she came to the Lodge. She was indefatigably taken up





with it, and never tired of singing, and Mrs. Turner was thankful for anything, which filled up the time of the long, weary days; for now the rain, which since their arrival had been most obliging in keeping away, poured down with unceasing violence.

A few days before they went, however, it cleared up, and the pony was pronounced sound; but Linda seemed to have lost the zest which she had before so vividly taken in her mountain rambles, and, to Mrs. Turner's surprise, evinced no longer repugnance to returning to England. A short time before, the very idea had been torture to the girl.

Linda's meeting with her cousin had changed the whole current of her nature; on him was centred every feeling, every anticipation of the future. With her ideal of the future so vividly engraven on her enthusiastic heart, she bore about with her a





treasure which would make everything else bearable.



"It was because I had nothing in the world to love, that I was so lonely and miserable," she thought, as she contemplated the future; "and he told me that we should meet again, that he would talk to his father and mother about me





'my uncle,' as he said. It is quite a dif ferent thing now to what it has been; he will be in England, at any rate; Oxford is not so very many miles from Bellemont, after all. But I shall always love the name of dear Scotland, where, for the first time in my life, I may say, I have really, although for so short a time, been, oh! so very, very happy."



Poor Linda! Oxford might be indeed only a hundred miles from Bellemont; but it is not always distance which so often places a gulf between two persons, but a barrier





Linda was again delivered into the hands of Lady Elizabeth, very different from the sullen, ghastly-looking girl who had left her very little more than two months ago. Health beamed from her countenance, and the eyes were not, as before, always cast down. She looked fearlessly around her, and shrank not with trembling from the pale, stern face of her whose injudicious system and training, without real intent to harm, had produced so blighting an effect upon her protegée.

"Why should she fear her?" Norman advised her not to care, and he had said "it would soon be over, and not be long before she would be a woman." She must remember these words; and now she was no longer a poor little wretched nobody,





but Norman's cousin, Lord Curraghmore's niece; and really it was wonderful what importance these ideas gave to the little girl's demeanour.

We cannot affirm what effect this change produced at first upon Lady Elizabeth; but Lady Sunderland was much pleased, and Lord Sunderland exclaimed, "Well, little one, I am glad to think we shall not have to bury you just yet. You must keep up those good looks of yours, and to-morrow you shall see the pony I have bought for you."



And now Linda had courage to look up and thank his Lordship very gratefully.

Many changes awaited Linda. Miss Straightways had been replaced by a French governess-though no younger, yet less lugubrious in appearance than her former instructress. In future, instead of the school-room dinner, Linda and Made





moiselle were to partake of that meal at the luncheon-table, and were always to appear in the evening.

Lord and Lady Sunderland had with some difficulty accomplished these plans, Lady Elizabeth having strongly opposed them, and threatened entirely to give up any share in the superintendence of Linda's education; but knowing what an amusement and occupation it afforded to the poor invalid, they did not like to express what they really thought, that it would be the best thing she could possibly do.

At this juncture Lord Sinclair fortunately returned from a lengthened Continental tour, and his influence with his sister prevailed, and she gave way, although with great disapprobation, to the less stringent arrangements and the partial emancipation of the former captive; and as she noted the altered expression of the





child's countenance, she thought it was indeed most passing strange, and would require her strictest surveillance. Lord Sinclair, during the short visit, had scarcely seen Linda, but for the sake of her mother he was anxious for her well-doing.

Mrs. Turner, who, in fact, stood as much. in awe of Lady Elizabeth as the rest of the world, was very guarded in all she narrated of the mountain sojourn. She dared not confess how completely she had succumbed to the wayward fancies of her charge, or how totally powerless she had been to restrain her within proper bounds of decorum.



Even the story of Linda's meeting with her cousin was glossed over as slightly as possible. What would that straight-laced lady have thought if she had heard that the girl she was striving to bring up under the most severe rule of discipline, had been





brought home at ten o'clock at night by two young men, found by them alone, mingling amongst a set of wild fishermen and gillies, by a river's side, miles and miles. from home? No; certainly, the less said upon the subject the better; and she even gave a hint to Linda, saying, "I fear, my dear, Lady Elizabeth would be very angry if she heard of the manner in which you encountered your cousin."

Linda tossed her head, as much as to say, "Who cares?" but she replied

"I don't think there is much fear of her ever hearing; I am sure I shall never tell her."

،،





Well, I advise you to be silent about it; for really, Linda, when I consider how blamable I was to allow you to roam about by yourself as I did, I————”

But Linda stopped her from continuing a







speech the good lady had made so often, by saying

"No one could be to blame but myself, dear Mrs. Turner. How could you have kept me quiet? You might just as well have tried to catch one of the moonbeams which slanted across those dear mountains. You allowed me to be the happiest of the happy, and what harm has come of it, pray ?"

"Well, well, I trust none, and that I may never be blamed," the good woman said.



Certainly we must add, that she gave a sigh of relief when she found herself once more in her snug, cottage with her maid and her cat? What to her had been that



magnificent scenery around. She quite shuddered when she thought of those grim mountains and dark rocks.





CHAPTER XVI.



TIME went on, in many respects, more smoothly with Linda for the next two years and a half..



The new governess was a clever, shrewd woman, of a certain age, who soon understood the character of all those she had to deal with, and with true worldly wisdom acted accordingly.

The situation was a good one in every respect; she received an ample salary, and all the creature comforts were abundant. Mademoiselle Dubois had worked hard all her life, and it was, even to her French nature, an agreeable change to be





able to rest herself for a while, although it was a life of little pleasure or excitement that she led while at Bellemont.



Linda was quick and clever at everything she learnt; the studies gave her very little trouble; and as for her music, it was a veritable delight to the Frenchwoman, and soon she felt how little she could do to improve a pupil who seemed to have been born with music at her fingers' ends. However, she told not this to Lady Elizabeth, but made her believe that to her own constant labour her pupil owed such great improvement in that branch of her education; and as Mademoiselle Dubois was perfect in the art of humbug, she managed, by adroit flattery, and constantly expatiating upon the very surprising powers of mind, and the acute perception, in all matters, possessed by her talented Ladyship, to acquire her complete confidence and approval.

Lady Elizabeth concluding, however, that





no foreigner could possess proper enlightenment upon religious matters, notwithstanding that Mademoiselle Dubois professed herself (for the time being, at least) a Protestant, took into her own hands all theological instructions.



This was Linda's greatest trial; for, we grieve to say, the hard, dry studies, and the harder opinions of the instructress, did not expand the heart of Linda, nor elevate her feelings of devotion or of love.



Indeed, we can scarcely be surprised at the deadness of the poor girl's feelings at this period of her existence, as to vital religion. It was taught to her as a science, by one who had rendered herself an object of dislike to the girl, and whose cold, grey eyes lighted not up into any expression of feeling, as she discoursed of things which should have infused hope and joy into the heart of the listener.





So time went on; and Linda would have been, comparatively speaking at least, contented thus to pass the time which intervened, before she had grown into a woman,



- that period which, by some miraculous means, was to create such a marvellous change in her circumstances,-had it not been for the continual feeling of hope deferred always gnawing at her heart.

She had become accustomed to many things which at first irritated the girl to an insupportable degree. She had learnt to care little for Lady Elizabeth's opinions; to meet her cold looks of reprehension with perfect indifference; to sit mute and motionless whilst a lecture was being delivered, her thoughts far away-in the Highlands generally—all the time, beginning always by steeling her mind by remembering Norman's words and injunctions, that she ought not to allow herself to be made unhappy by





Lady Elizabeth,-that she would soon be a woman, and then The train of thought carried her so far out of her present state, that her countenance, at first dull and inexpressive, began to light up, her eyes to sparkle, nay, sometimes even her lips to smile; and many times Lady Elizabeth, in horrified dismay, had stopped short in the midst of a most dignified harangue by exclaiming,

"Linda, pray are you listening to what I am saying?"

And the electric shock of her voice had recalled the girl, with a start of affright, from the fairy land in which her senses were revelling. Ah! this hope, this hope, which never left her mind. It went on, always green and unfading; and when months and even years went by, still it was there, nourished and fostered with never-ceasing care.

"When I am a woman it will be all





right," she would think, "and then I shall certainly see him." And every birthday was hailed with inexpressible delight.

A newspaper was never allowed to be read by Linda, or perchance some information might have been gained concerning the subject of her thoughts. She might have seen that, about a year after she had met him, Norman was gazetted into the Foot Guards, and then that the said Honourable Norman Lawless had obtained a lengthened leave of absence for the purpose of travelling.



Linda could have been really fond of Lady Sunderland, for that lady would fain have been so kind and indulgent to the girl; but Lady Elizabeth's vigilant eye was always on the watch to counteract her mother's “weak conduct," as she termed it, towards a child who really required the strictest management.





Lord Sunderland was also inclined to notice the little girl when he saw her in the evening; but then, with Lady Elizabeth's eye continually resting upon her, she felt unable to respond to his few kind words, or perhaps some joking allusion to her pony, or some such trifle. But occasionally he would meet her in her morning rides, and the good-natured Lord would join the little girl, who, with eyes brightened and cheeks flushed by the exercise, looked quite a different creature, and who would then chat with him quite naturally, removed from the atmosphere of Lady Elizabeth's presence, which froze her into sullen stolidity. "Poor little thing!" he would say to Lady Sunderland, "I see they are educating her to death; and what is it all for, I want to know? I suppose the Curraghmores do not intend their niece to be a governess?"





"Yes," Lady Sunderland replied, "they certainly are overdoing it; but, really, Elizabeth is so determined in her notions, that I have no power in the matter."

And so it went on, Linda with no relaxation but her daily ride. Even Mrs. Turner had left Bellemont to live with a sister in a distant county. Sometimes she would steal out of the school-room when Mademoiselle Dubois was so immersed in the interest of one of her books, that she heeded not her pupil, and pay stealthy visits to the housekeeper, Mrs. Davis, a kind old body, who in her heart sincerely pitied the poor child shut up all day in the gloomy room, with books never out of her hand. She had always a little tit-bit for her in the shape of some preserve, or some such good thing. And, oh! it was a relief to the wearied girl to be able to talk at her





ease with the good woman, to tell her all her grievances, to relate over and over again the history of that one bright spot in her existence, her Highland visit, and even, faute de mieux, confide to her the adventure of meeting her cousin.

And what a delight it was to hear from Mrs. Davis that, now that she heard the name of Curraghmore mentioned, she knew all about that family—at least had heard plenty about them; and although the intelligence she had to give was not particularly pleasing, anything of her relations was interesting.



The housekeeper enlarged upon the disagreeable qualities of Lady Curraghmore, whom she made out to be proud as Lucifer, an overbearing mistress to her servants, a skinflint, and a regular vixen towards my Lord and the young ladies.





"As for the son, Mrs. Saunders, the housekeeper, a particular friend of mine," Mrs. Davis would add, "who lived with the family for a year or two,-she could not stand it any longer, said he was the only one who knew the length of my Lady's thumbs; he had it all his own way with her; and a handsome lad he was, I believe, but with a rare spirit of his own."

"So much the better," interrupted Linda, much excited; "what a poor creature a man would be without a spirit! But go on, Mrs. Davis."





"Oh, I've not much more to say. The young gentleman ruled the roast, it seemed: such rows he kicked up-ordered about as if he were already more the master in the house than my Lord,-e Lord,—even my Lady was meek as a mouse before him. Mrs. Saunders told me many a good story about those people, but I have forgotten them all





by this time. The whole concern would have been clean out of my head had you not brought them back by your talk of having met the youngster; and, to be sure, he to be your cousin, Miss Linda! Well, I might have remembered that both your names were Lawless, although Mrs. Saunders seldom called him anything but Mr. Norman.” "And my uncle -what did she say of him?" asked Linda, eagerly.

Mrs. Davis chuckled knowingly.

"Oh! Miss Linda, he Let me see, what did she say? Oh! that he played second fiddle to my Lady, but did not much care for that, I believe. He was a very handsome gentleman, had gay Irish blood in his veins, and understood how to amuse himself very well, independent quite of home. However, this is all foolish talk for you to hear, young lady; so we'll change the subject, if you please."





And this sort of conversations and stolen visits to the housekeeper's room was Linda's chief recreation at this period of her existence at Bellemont.





CHAPTER XVII.





!



LORD SINCLAIR, who had been abroad some time, now returned to Bellemont.



Linda had taken up her abode there before his departure, but he had scarcely seen her. It was the days of Miss Straightways and total incarceration; and although he felt most anxious that the child of his ever-lamented friend, Rosalinda, should be well cared for, the girl herself, when he saw her so sullen-looking and unimpressible, had not particularly interested his fancy.



The first night of his return Lady Elizabeth issued her command that Mademoiselle





Dubois and her pupil's presence would be dispensed with in the drawing-room that evening.

The next day Linda was taking her usual ride; the air was bright and clear, exhilarating the spirits of the girl, who never felt so gay and light of heart as when on her beautiful pony.



The old groom had a hard matter to keep up with his reckless charge, who ofttimes led him a pretty dance,-taking roads, and getting through and over places, difficult for him, so differently mounted, to follow. Nothing Linda enjoyed more than terrifying the old man out of his wits by some mad freak-leaping over impediments which he considered dangerous in the extreme, or some such escapade. She was the most fearless of riders, and, to judge by the manner in which she managed her pony, a most skilful one also. Thomas very often





grumbled and scolded, threatened to tell Lady Elizabeth, and all sorts of things. But Linda knew that he would not; that, though he was sometimes so cross, he was in reality a kind old man, and, moreover, that he was rather proud of her feats, and of her riding, having been, as he thought, her sole instructor-never remembering, or perhaps knowing, that whilst with her old aunt she had mounted every animal in the village, with or without a saddle.



The groom, like all the inhabitants of Bellemont, pitied the little girl who was kept in such durance vile within the house: not a relaxation afforded her, save this one of her daily ride, so he gave way, and let her do what she pleased, so that she would promise not to break her neck.



This day she seemed more wild than usual, and, instead of taking the regular way which led to the high road, insisted



R





upon having a gallop in fields which, either by stiles or hedges, or by locked gates, were rendered almost inaccessible to horses.



"We'll get over them somehow or another," she said; "come on, Thomas!"

And truly they did manage to scramble over all but the last enclosure, which led at once to the road. This was a very difficult one even to leap, a ditch and hedge intervening.

"Now, Miss Linda, how in the name of wonder are we to get over here?" said Thomas, very irate. "I won't stand all this here much longer; I must just tell Lady Elizabeth; it's regular shocking. Just look at your habit, Miss; it is torn to ribbons. If that won't tell a tale, I don't know what will; and as for this here fence, you'll break your neck: and the pony's,

if

you attempt it."

"Well, then, Thomas, neck or nothing!"





Linda cried, as, having gathered up her reins accordingly, she, after patting the pony's neck and speaking a few encouraging words to him, deliberately cleared a tremendous leap-one, indeed, which a notorious fox-hunter might have gloried in-leaving poor Thomas to follow as he might.



At the moment when she had gained terra firma, and with a ringing laugh of triumph was looking back at the terrified old man, she perceived two horsemen who had approached close to her, not before noticed in her excitement. She started, colouring deeply when she discovered that one was Lord Sunderland, and the other his

son.



"Well done, Linda!" Lord Sunderland said, laughing; "I did not know what a female Nimrod you were. Why," he continued, examining the point from whence





she had issued, and seeing Thomas endeavouring to lead the horse over it, "this is an extraordinary feat to be performed by a little girl and her pony. Is it not, Sinclair?"



Lord Sinclair now approached. "Linda has forgotten me," he said, as he held out his hand in kindly greeting; "I am sure

I should not have known her."



And the girl did look changed at this moment. She was not at all like the usual Linda of the Bellemont drawingroom,-a pale, abstracted, sullen-looking little creature, never raising her eyes from her work, for fear of encountering those of Lady Elizabeth, but a rosy, bright girl, so proud of herself and delighted, her mouth dimpled with laughter, showing a row of very pretty little teeth. She was too much exhilarated by her feat to think of anything else her torn habit or her

unladylike exploit; but sat watching the





operation of dragging Thomas's horse over the fence, in which he was now assisted by Lord Sunderland's groom, with the most unrestrained amusement. And what would Lady Elizabeth have said, had she heard this tutored pupil exclaim to the old groom, when at last the business was accomplished, in a most hail-fellow-well-met style: "Well, Thomas, my neck is safe, and so is the pony's, and you certainly have taken good care of yours. I should have been ashamed of such a cowardly act, getting off and leading your horse over, when I never hesitated to leap the fence."

The gentlemen were much amused, and they all rode on together, Linda chatting incessantly, boasting of all her wonderful deeds of horsemanship, giving long details of many adventures which, had they been repeated, would have put a final stop to any more riding for the future. So ex





hilarated was she, that everything but the present moment was forgotten, till suddenly they came in sight of the mansion, and then a revulsion took place in her feeling, and she suddenly, in a voice of despair, exclaimed, "Oh! what will Lady Elizabeth say?"



And she looked down on her torn habit with such an expression of agony in her face, that Lord Sinclair almost started. That look!-how much it reminded him of her mother in one of her tragic parts !

"Never mind; you shall have a new one," Lord Sunderland said good-naturedly.

"Oh, but that will be of no use: Lady Elizabeth will be so shocked. And, Lord Sunderland and Lord Sinclair," she continued, beseechingly turning from one to the other, her bright eyes now dimmed by tears,

pray don't tell her what you saw me do; she would think it so unladylike,—so dread





ful; pray say nothing about it, and when I ever ride again, I will try not to leap the fences, although, when I am at full gallop, I don't know how it is, but I feel as if I could do anything, however wrong and rash.”

Both the gentlemen promised secrecy, and Lord Sinclair declared that he would ride at once to D- and she should have a new skirt by to-morrow."



"And look, Linda," said Lord Sunderland, pointing to the carriage that they now perceived driving in another direction, "there goes Lady Elizabeth. I heard her tell my lady that she was going with her this afternoon to pay some visits."



Linda was indeed relieved. How grateful she felt towards those two good-natured Lords, who were most anxious to help her to deceive Lady Elizabeth!



"This is a very wrong system, Sinclair," said Lord Sunderland, as he continued his





ride with his son, on the habit-skirt expedition to the neighbouring town. "I don't like it at all. Elizabeth, though meaning so well, is doing her best to ruin that girl. Her severity will make her deceitful, and destroy all the good that may be within her. What a nice plucky little creature she is! Really, on her pony, no one could know her to be the girl one sees sitting in the drawing-room, like an automaton, by the side of that French Mademoiselle."







Why does Elizabeth think it necessary to break the poor child in, in that absurd manner?" replied Lord Sinclair. "To me she is most interesting, and I see in her a strong likeness to poor Rosalinda."

"Well, when she is animated, I think she has a look of her mother; but I really believe she will be handsomer when she is older and happier. The Curraghmores are





a good-looking race. Rosalinda, after all, had no great beauty to boast of."

"No; but what an expressive, delicious countenance it was! All the All the years that have elapsed since I saw her have never effaced the impression she made upon my mind. Yes, she was the love of my boyhood; and I can assure you the feeling was a very strong one-never yet surpassed by any other feeling of the kind. Yes," he added, sorrowfully,—



"Had I but loved with a boyish love,

It would have been better for me;'





"for perhaps you will think it strange," he added, with a regretful smile, "when I tell you that her image, dear soul, has always come between any other woman whom I ought perhaps to have fancied sufficiently to have wished to make my wife. Now, this poor child I feel towards her as if she





were my own daughter; and, really, Elizabeth is foolish, to use the mildest term; her method of bringing her up quite exasperates me.'


"I quite agree with you," Lord Sunderland responded, "but there is no help for it now, I suppose. In a year or two this edu

cation mania must in the course of nature subside; but your sister has ever held such supreme sway over us all, that neither your mother nor I dare do much. Something we have accomplished; these rides, for instance. What a brave little creature she is! That was a marvellous leap she took; but those mad-cap freaks must not be allowed. She will come to mischief some of these days, assuredly."



Certainly, that evening it was almost with a start of surprise that Lord Sinclair again beheld the daughter of the brilliant Rosalinda-such a contrast, indeed, to the ever





animated cantatrice, and to the less Ariel of the morning, fun dancing in her bright eyes.

There she sat as usual, working at a table apart by the governess, pale and dull, a very uninteresting specimen of a girl of sixteen, looking by some years younger than she was. But Lord Sinclair determined, if possible, to break the ice of this unnatural state of things. He drew a chair towards the table, and began at once to converse with the two thus isolated from the rest of the party,— Lady Elizabeth looking on dismayed and offended by this flagrant breach of her rules, but not daring to interfere with her brother, who was the only one in the family bold enough to attempt to circumvent her preposterous fancies.



merry, fearand frolic



By degrees she saw Linda's countenance brighten, her eyes soon raised from her work, and smiles beginning to dimple her





mouth.

Mademoiselle Dubois also seemed

to enter into and enjoy what Lord Sinclair was saying.



She perceived he was asking some question, or making some request, at which Linda shook her head, and looked furtively at herself. Then the same question was evidently asked of Mademoiselle Dubois, who also shook her head, and glanced towards her autocrat; after which she ob served that her brother had risen, and was approaching to where she sat, his countenance indicating decision.



"Elizabeth," he said, "I have asked Linda for some music, but she says she cannot give me any without your permission; so, pray, accord it, for I am already starving for want of it, not having heard a note for at least a week."

"Linda never plays in public," was the tart rejoinder.





"Then it is high time she should, if you call this public," he answered; "so, pray, be quick and accord your gracious consent, or I fear I shall be inclined to be rebellious."



Not without further demur, and with the very worst grace, Lady Elizabeth, seeing plainly that she could not prevent it, said in her harshest tones, "Linda, go and bring your music."



But Mademoiselle Dubois informed her Ladyship that Miss Linda could play quite as well without the notes; and Linda, without the slightest hesitation, sat down to the piano.

She commenced evidently quite in her element at the instrument, and after having for a few minutes swept the chords in a most brilliant manner, as if to show how completely she was mistress of the art, she changed the notes to the symphony of an Italian song. By some strange fatality, it





happened to be one in which her mother had most excelled;—not that it was one of that mother's most artistic performances, calculated to show forth the greatest powers of her skill, and the compass of her unrivalled voice, but a composition of exquisite pathos, to which no person could give full justice but one who really possessed the very soul of music.

Lord Sinclair was still seated by the work-table, which faced the pianoforte. No sooner had Linda struck the first chords, than he felt that the daughter was the true child of her talented mother, and he listened with delight to that clear touch and agile finger. But when the girl suddenly changed from the elaborate, rather noisy piece which she had commenced, to the pathetic prelude of the song which followed, the remembrance of her who used to charm his boyish fancy into Elysium by





the delicious sweetness of her voice, recalling so vividly to his mind those happy, bygone days of youth, and that Rosalinda so beloved-those feelings which had never been surpassed in joy, by the pleasures of maturer age-irresistibly touched the heart of Lord Sinclair. And as the song proceeded, and the girl's voice, immatured as it still was, rang forth notes so perfectly similar in tone to those of the enchantress of old, he scarcely knew how to restrain the emotion which seemed determined to unman him.



And Linda, as he now furtively looked at her whilst she sang,—there darted again on her young face the same look of resemblance to her mother which had before flashed upon him.

Whilst she poured forth her song, aught else seemed to be forgotten; her whole soul was in her singing. No abject fear made





the clear voice falter, though its tones accorded with every word in which, with the perfect enunciation of her silvery mothertongue, she poured forth the woes it expressed.

Every listener in the room that night was spell-bound and entranced, save, perhaps, Mademoiselle Dubois, who alone was perfectly cognizant of the surpassing powers of her pupil. But even she had never heard her sing in that manner before.

Lady Sunderland was actually in tears; and even Lady Elizabeth's hard nature was softened. Rosalinda, the loved by all, was before them in imagination; not her child.



"Well done, little one!" Lord Sunderland exclaimed; "that was indeed your mother's own voice," he added, with some emotion in his tone, "and that's saying a great deal; for never did I hear singing





to equal hers. Now give us another song, but let it be a livelier ditty, pray." And Linda instantly obeyed.



"Il Segreto per esser felice," she commenced.







But Lord Sinclair, who had sat immovable, his elbows on the table, his face shaded with his hands, did not seem desirous of hearing any more; perhaps he was loath to break the charmed illusion in which his fancy was rapt by that last most beautifully pathetic strain, for he rose from his seat and soon left the room.



S





CHAPTER XVIII.



LINDA retired to bed that night in a state of exultation she had never before felt. She was well aware what a sensation her singing had excited. Even Lady Elizabeth looked less harsh when she wished her good night; and Lady Sunderland,—how kindly she had kissed her, and with tears, too, in her eyes! Certainly it was for her mother's sake; however, that only more gratified the girl's heart.



"Povera madre!" she cried, "you have indeed left me an excellent gift. And Lord Sinclair, -I am sure he liked it,





although he would not stay to hear Il

Segreto."



Linda had never heard that her mother had been an Opera singer; the fact had been most carefully kept from her knowledge by the Sunderland family, and the old aunt had been instructed by them not to enlighten her upon the point. There was no advantage to be gained by her knowing it. Her father's position placed his daughter in so different a grade, that it was as well to keep this truth in oblivion; and not even Mademoiselle Dubois was aware of the circumstances attending her pupil's parentage, excepting that her mother was by birth an Italian. And thus it was she argued that Linda possessed such wonderful vocal powers.

*

*



From this time may be dated another epoch in Linda's life.





Lord Sinclair had indeed been more than delighted with her performance. Once having heard her, he had no intention that it should be the only time.

"Elizabeth," he said, "I am to be here only a week longer, and during that time I beg you will give Linda a holiday from her graver studies, and let us have a great deal of music. Her voice is enchanting, even now: what will it be hereafter, when she has had first-rate instruction ?"



"I do not wish it to be improved. Linda will not require it professionally; and if any fuss is made about her singing, it will only prove a snare to the girl. I shall not allow her to exhibit again," was the tart reply.



"And do you therefore mean to insist, Elizabeth, with that superb organ with which God has gifted her, she is not to use it for the gratification of her friends?





Well, all I can say is," Lord Sinclair continued, in great indignation, "that I never heard anything so absurd in all my life. You know how passionately fond I am of music; and, with such a performer in the house, to be debarred from hearing herAnd for what purpose, I should like to know? A preposterous whim of your own!"

“Sinclair, I am not accustomed to be spoken to in this manner," Lady Elizabeth exclaimed, white with anger.

"I know you are not," her brother replied, now determined to have his own way, and to carry his point nolens volens; "and really it would be better for the happiness of many if others of the family had always. been more free-spoken: and I tell you plainly, Elizabeth, that I cannot imagine why you should arrogate such entire authority over that girl. It was my mother who promised poor Rosalinda, on her death





bed, to befriend her child-not you. I have just as much right to interfere with Linda as you can have-I, the dearest friend her mother ever possessed."

A sneering smile of rage was the only reply.



"And, moreover," Lord Sinclair hurriedly continued, "to cut the matter short, if I am to be refused, in this ridiculous manner, the pleasure I have been contemplating of hearing more of the girl's music, I shall certainly take myself off at once. I intended to stay ten days longer; but if my home is to be made thus disagreeable, I shall rid you all of my presence at

once."

Lady Elizabeth was confounded. Never before, during the course of her indulged life, had she been thus paid off in her own coin. Her brother threatening to leave the house, and she the cause; this only





brother, so beloved by his parents, who had been so long absent on the Continent! What was she to do? Could she condescend to give way? Oh, yes, she must; for Lord Sinclair, with a very angry brow, had risen, and was striding towards the door. "He will go to my father and mother, and tell them that he is going, and I the cause," she mentally exclaimed, and then said, hurriedly





it



"Sinclair, don't be so absurd. What is want?"

you

He stopped short; and seeing, by her crestfallen countenance, that he had won the day, more gently said: "I only wish to hear a great deal of that little girl's singing and playing, and to accompany her songs; in short, to have my fill of her delicious. voice, so like her mother's."



"Well, on your shoulders rest the blame, if Linda, with whom I have had no end of





trouble, is irretrievably spoilt. Of course, if insist I must give way; you and you will, I hope, please to remember that, though we all certainly loved and admired her, poor Rosalinda was after all an Opera singer!"

And so saying she left the room.

Yes, poor Rosalinda, I did love and admire you!" apostrophised Lord Sinclair when the door had closed, "and your child shall be to me as a little daughter."







And now again, as in days long past, melody resounded at all times of the day in that large mansion. Lord Sinclair was a genuine lover of music; it was, to speak in metaphor, meat and drink to himhad truly become the ruling passion of his existence, absorbing to an inordinate degree his thoughts and actions. Lord and Lady Sunderland sometimes looked upon





this mania of their only son with suspicion and regret.

It drew him out of his own position, causing him to associate too freely with professionals. They were always trembling for the consequences.

Before Lord Sinclair left Bellemont, which now he really did with regret, he not only spoke seriously to Lady Sunderland, upon the subject of some change which ought to be made in the system pursued with regard to Linda, but also encountered a fierce disquisition with Lady Elizabeth, and really proved partially successful, insomuch that she consented to the proposal that Linda, who would then be within a few months of seventeen, should accompany the family to London in the spring, and have a good singing-master. In the meantime for the sake of her manners, he insisted, she should be brought





more into society, and treated less as a child.



"Linda must soon," he added, "be introduced to her relations; and it would not be very creditable to your training, Elizabeth, if you presented to them a girl who sat like a post in the drawing-room, evidently frightened to open her lips."

"I have seen her perfectly at her ease talking to you, Sinclair," was the offended reply; "and I do not admire boldness in any girl."

"Nor do I; but I advocate ladylike ease of manner, not a constrained demeanour, which does not savour of having lived in good society. In short, Elizabeth, I am quite sure you understand what I mean, and will act accordingly."





CHAPTER XIX.



THE aspect of affairs from this time certainly assumed a far pleasanter form for Linda. Lady Elizabeth felt that the reins of government were slipping by degrees from her hands.



Poor woman! the time had been when nothing could have wrested them from her tenacious grasp; but her health, always feeble, was beginning totally to give way. She had been seized with one of her fits of illness, and was ordered by the physician perfect rest from all excitement. This was a favourable opportunity for changing in some degree the school-room system.





Lord Sunderland, delighted with Linda's equestrian powers, bought a beautiful lady's horse for her sole use, and was pleased and proud to have her for the companion of his rides. Linda, charmed with her perfect steed, nevertheless, at first, would have sometimes preferred her harumscarum scampers upon the dear pony, over hill and over dale, to the posé, ladylike canters with the old Lord; still, she soon began to like them very much, and it dawned upon her quick perception, that, as she was really a young lady, it was just as well to comport herself as such.

And now she and her governess joined the late dinners, when the party was small, Lady Sunderland often taking her in the carriage to pay visits.

This was all according to the directions Lord Sinclair had laid down for the improve. ment of Linda's manners and address; and





the kind lady might at this time have entirely won the girl's love and confidence, if she had not still been under the influence of Lady Elizabeth's reiterated entreaties, yea, even commands, that she should not spoil the girl by too great indulgence, causing often a stiffness of demeanour towards Linda, which she was far from feeling.



March arrived, and the family removed to Carlton Gardens, Lady Elizabeth still so suffering an invalid, that, almost immediately after her arrival in London, the doctor ordered her to the milder air of Torquay, where she went, accompanied by careful attendants and an intimate friend. And now Linda began to enjoy herself most thoroughly. The novelty of all around was most delicious excitement, and she greatly delighted in the lessons in music and singing which she received from firstrate professors.





Linda's appearance had wonderfully improved. Though not tall, her height was sufficient to be graceful; her head and face were very small and well-shaped, her eyes dark and brilliant. She certainly inherited more of her Italian mother's looks than those of the Lawless family,- her complexion, of the pale-olive tint so indigenous to the southern blood, only requiring colour to light it up into beauty,- and her teeth, when she smiled, dazzling in their whiteness.

Looking at Linda unmoved and uninterested, no one would remark her good looks; but speak to her, touch a chord which vibrated at her heart, and there came a bright gleam over the countenance, illuminating the whole of the little face with strange, fascinating sweetness. So we believe it had been with her mother an en

chantress, without the aid of downright beauty.





And now that the weight of Lady Elizabeth's presence had been removed, the sullen, inexpressive look was gone. It was like a new world to the girl, the life she was now leading,-so happy she felt, and free, and she could talk and chat to every one,―sing unrestrainedly, like an uncaged bird. She practised diligently,

and two motives incited her to redoubled exertion.

That dear, good, kind Lord Sinclair, he was returning home; and -and Norman, oh! where was he? But he must come soon now, and then he would hear what she could do.



Lord Sinclair did soon arrive, and then things went on even more pleasantly than before. He was delighted with her improvement, attended every singing lesson, and, to crown it all, proposed that she should go constantly to the Opera, and to many





of the best concerts, insisting, moreover, upon some important changes in her dress.



"My dear mother," he said, "Linda is no longer a child; you really must dress her a little better."

"What would Elizabeth say," Lady Sunderland replied, "if we ventured to make any changes? I can assure you she chose all her things before she left town, and would be very angry if she thought her particular directions were not obeyed."

"I am sorry to hear it," Lord Sinclair persisted, "for I am quite determined to infringe her orders. Linda cannot appear in the evening dressed in those dowdy high bodies, or whatever you call them. I beg, mother, you will order her two pretty dresses: they must be white, and as simple as you please; but only let them be made by a fashionable mantuamaker, and of the





proper shape for a girl of her age. I'll pay for them, you know I have constituted myself her guardian."

Who can describe the intoxicating delight of the Opera to this child of a gifted mother? From the first note of the orchestra to the last, Linda had no eyes or ears for anything else, scarcely looked around at the brilliant scene, or the striking occupants of the boxes.



-



During the intervals of the acts, her eyes were busied with her book of the opera, looking on what was to come, and referring back to what had hitherto been sung, inwardly going over passages which she had just heard so artistically performed.

Linda little knew or heeded that, whilst she sat there absorbed, her small, classicallyformed head, unadorned save by its own beautiful soft dark hair, the profile of her face, as she leant over her book, alone per



T





ceptible, underwent the usual ordeal of the opera-glasses, always levelled at every box, particularly when it contained something new and young.

"What have you been staring at for the last ten minutes ?" exclaimed a young man in one of the stalls to his neighbour, who occupied the one next to him; “I see nothing attractive in that direction."

"I see something that, at all events, puzzles me. Look at that girl in the third box from the stage, in the first tier, and tell me if you have ever seen any one at all like her?"



The first speaker looked fixedly for a moment ortwo through his opera-glass, in the direction indicated, and then exclaimed—

"By Jove! it really must be my queer little cousin; and, by-the-bye, there is Sinclair by her side, and she lives with the Sunderlands. But I can scarcely believe





it can be her: she must be most marvellously improved. I will go and pay my respects to the little thing-only I hope we shall not have a scene."



And he rose, and was elbowing his way out of the stalls with the intention of going at once to Lady Sunderland's box, when his progress and intentions were arrested by seeing a radiant creature enter a neighbouring one, and who, even before she had taken her seat, had spied him out, and with the brightest of smiles allured him in a moment to her side, instantaneously effacing from his mind all remembrance of the pale little cousin who was seated almost in the next box. However, the next day, when he saw Lady Curraghmore, almost his first words were, "Do you know that Rosalinda Lawless, my cousin, is in London at this moment? I saw her last night at the Opera, with Lady





Sunderland; pray, do you intend to take

any notice of her?”

"What!





do you mean the Opera



singer's daughter?"

"I mean my father's niece, my uncle's daughter, and my cousin," the young man answered resolutely, and not very respectfully, staring at his mother.

"Where is my father?" he continued ; "I must go and tell him about it, and ask him when he will go with me to see her; for if she has been thought good enough for the Sunderlands to treat as their own child, I conclude she is worthy of some little attention from us."



"Norman, you are always so impetuous -in such a hurry about everything. Pray, did I ever say that I did not intend to notice the girl?"



"Then why have you not done so before? Did I not ask you to show some sort





of kindness to her three years ago? But, pray, what have you done? I am absolutely ashamed of my father. His own niece-and to allow her to exist on the kindness of strangers!"

"The girl has some little money of her "urged Lady Curraghmore.

own,

"Not sufficient, I am sure, to bring her up as they have done-no pains nor expense spared."

"More absurd of them," her Ladyship remarked, spitefully.



"That's nothing to the purpose," the dutiful son persisted. "Now, just tell me at once, Lady Curraghmore, what you intend to do in this business, and then I shall form my own plans."

"Do!-why, of course I intend to call on Lady Sunderland."

'Well, what next?"

"That will depend upon circumstances.





Perhaps if I do not disapprove of the looks and manners of your cousin, I may ask her to spend the day in Grosvenor Square. I should hope your sisters' minds and principles are now sufficiently formed, to allow them to associate with one brought up so differently from themselves."

"Well, if this is really to be the case, I can postpone my visit until I return from Windsor next week; but recollect, mother, I expect you will not fail in calling upon Rosalinda to-day." And so saying, Norman Lawless left his mother chafing over her defeat, and making up her mind to dislike without reserve her husband's orphan niece.





CHAPTER XX.



It was in the interval which intervenes before a large dinner party that Linda was at length introduced to her relations.

Lady Curraghmore had called in Carlton Gardens, and Lady Sunderland had taken Linda with her to return the visit; but Fate had been against their meeting. An invitation to dinner was consequently despatched from Lord and Lady Sunderland, at a very brief interval, to Lord and Lady Curraghmore and their daughters, for the purpose of meeting their niece and cousin. The son, they heard, was at Windsor.

For the first time Linda was to join a





regular dinner party, and, with a beating heart and in a state of nervous excitement, then she prepared to make her toilette.

What was her delight to find, on entering her room, a pretty new dress for the occasion! It was only white muslin, but exquisitely made. She was in the midst of rapturous exclamations of admiration whilst examining this, to a young girl's mind, most delightful acquisition, when Lady Sunderland entered the room.

"I have brought you this to wear, dear Linda," she said, putting into her hand a red morocco case; "it is an ornament your mother much prized."

Linda eagerly opened the box, and beheld a small Maltese cross of diamonds.

"Oh, how beautiful!" she exclaimed, as the rich gems flashed upon her sight.

"Povera madre! and she wore it!" the girl murmured.





"Yes, it was her favourite ornament," Lady Sunderland replied. "I have many other trinkets belonging to you, Linda, more valuable than this one, but I am keeping them until you require such things. They are safer with me than with you just now. Here is a piece of velvet, to which you must hang the cross round your neck. You like your dress, I hope, and I think you will look very nice. Fanny," she said, turning to the maid, who was in waiting, "I hope Miss Lawless's hair will be well done. I am anxious, you see, Linda, to present you under as favourable an aspect as possible to your relations."

And, certainly, Linda never looked so well as when she presented herself in Lady Sunderland's dressing-room for inspection, before she descended with her into the drawing-room. Excitement had lighted up and given a glow to her pale complexion





the only thing required to make her pretty. Her beautiful soft dark hair had been simply but perfectly coifféd, displaying its exuberance without taking from the classic smallness of her head.



In her white dress, the diamond cross glittering so brilliantly on her bosom, as she stood before the lady, conscious that she was looking well, her eyes drooping, a half smile of pleasure on her lips,- Lady Sunderland gazed upon her young protegée with a degree of admiration which seemed almost incredible.



Could this be the Linda of old,-that dark, sullen, plain little girl? and now, how—yes, she must say, almost lovely, she looked.

"Sinclair," she cried, as she heard his step pass the door, on his way downstairs, "come here."



Lord Sinclair entered the dressing-room, holding a bouquet in his hand.





"Linda!" he exclaimed, really startled by the apparition. "Well, upon my word, my Lady, you have done the thing à merveille. She is exactly dressed as she ought to be-neither too much nor too little. How well her dress fits! Nothing like a French hand for knowing exactly what suits every different age, size, and look. And that cross!" he continued; "how well I remember it! Dear -ever dear Rosalinda!" he murmured, almost inaudibly. "But," he added, endeavouring to chase the gloom which always gathered over his feelings when he thought of his departed friend, "I have, you see, thought of an indispensable addition to a young débutante's dress,this bouquet;" and he presented to the delighted, grateful girl a magnificent one, entirely composed of white flowers, which was placed in a pretty holder.

"Now, Linda, you are armed cap-à-pied,





and need not fear the tremendous aunt. I think she would not mind exchanging you for one of her daughters. I met her the other day, sat by her at dinner,— tried, your sake, to get on with her, but

for

'never a word would she say."





"But my uncle?" Linda asked, as, leaning on Lord Sinclair's arm, they descended to the drawing-room.

"Oh! he is not at all formidable, but seems most good-natured, and is still one of the handsomest men in London."



"Ah!" thought Linda, "I suppose that is the reason Norman is so handsome."



The Curraghmores, according to agreement, were the first to arrive; so that the introduction was performed in stately privacy. Lady Curraghmore, a most uncongenial-looking woman, now on her best behaviour, standing slightly in awe of the






Sunderlands, was prepared to receive Linda graciously enough for her, but was rather thrown back by finding her so much betterlooking than she expected. The description her son had formerly given of his cousin, as she was when he had met her in the Highlands, was not certainly flattering; and she had expected to find a dowdy, plain-looking girl, whom she might patronise ad libitum. But when this gracefullooking girl, dressed so beautifully, was presented to her so affectionately by Lady Sunderland, her feelings took quite a different turn, it was now black jealousy which assailed them.





However, she was obliged to give her a cold finger, and then submit to seeing her hugged in a warm embrace by her more demonstrative husband, whose warmhearted Irish feelings were at this moment brought forth at the recollection that this





pretty creature was poor Valentine's child -his only brother. Oh! how this embrace warmed the orphan's heart! her own uncle, and Norman's father! So like Norman, too-only so much darker. What cared she for that disagreeable woman or her daughter, who put out her cold hand so grudgingly to her?

She was all smiles and happiness, receiving encouraging looks from all those good friends who had been to her, indeed, she now began to feel, the kindest pro





tectors.

More guests now flocked in, and she was desired by Lady Sunderland to seat herself by her cousin. She obeyed, and endeavoured to draw the young lady into conversation, but in vain; scarcely could she abstract from her even the easy monosyllable "Yes," or "No."

Linda rather enjoyed the time dinner





lasted. She was seated by the side of a most agreeable old gentleman, whom she soon discovered to be a devoted enthusiast of music. Mr. Vernon had heard from Lord Sinclair much of the great talent of his young neighbour, and was looking forward to the treat he had been promised in the evening, of hearing her sing.

So they got on well. Mr. Vernon retained vivid remembrances of "La Rosalinda," and looked with much interest upon her daughter, whose expressive countenance brought her image so strikingly back to his mind.



"You are like your mother," he said. "I am so glad," she replied. "Then you knew her ?"



"Yes," he said, "I knew her. She was charming as a woman, and perfect as an artiste."

"Then you often heard her sing?"





"Of course I did. When did I ever miss hearing her, if I could possibly help it?"

"What does he mean?" Linda began to cogitate; but at the moment her eyes met those of Lady Curraghmore, which were fixed upon her. This caused a revulsion in her system, which for the moment put to flight the sort of confusion of ideas which Mr. Vernon's speech had occasioned, and she thought, "Can that sinister-looking woman be really Norman's mother?"



It was indeed uphill work when the ladies returned to the drawing-room.

Lady Curraghmore scarcely spoke to Linda, who thought herself obliged, by the ties of consanguinity, to devote herself to Miss Lawless. In vain she strove to elicit a spark of intelligence from her;there she sat, immovable.





She was a plain, tall, white-looking girl, with red hair.



Norman's sister! Yes, and there was even a most provoking sort of family likeness to her handsome brother; dreadful, the idea, but so it really was.

At length Lady Curraghmore had, at some one's suggestion, gone into the next room to examine some piece of virtù just brought from Italy by Lord Sinclair, and the girls were left alone. And then Miss Lawless turned suddenly to Linda and said, in a voice, which was strongly impregnated by a Scotch accent,-strangely, we may say, as all their governesses had been English and foreign," You need not trouble your. self to talk to me; Mamma does not choose that I should be intimate with you."

"Oh! why not?" asked poor Linda, much shocked.

"Can't you guess





?" the young lady re

U





plied. And perhaps she was about to say that Lady Curraghmore did not wish her daughters to be intimate with the daughter of an Opera singer, when the lady's return to her former seat put a stop to the conversation. However, Lady Curraghmore, being engrossed in some earnest conversation with a Dowager, no doubt pouring into her ear the story of her perplexities concerning her Lord's objectionable niece, Miss Lawless again spoke, though in a low tone, and without moving a muscle of her countenance, so that, should her mother turn suddenly round, she could not suspect her of the act of talking. She murmured, "Norman told us to talk to you,- to be kind to you. How can we do either the one or the other? And as for kindness, you don't seem to want for any. I should be glad to change places with you."

"Did he say so?" exclaimed Linda,





"How good of him!

highly delighted. Oh! tell me, when do you think I shall see him again?"

But not a word more was to be elicited. Lady Curraghmore had ceased to speak, and her daughter's statue-like figure remained unmoved.





CHAPTER XXI.



THE gentlemen now entered the drawingroom, and Lord Curraghmore immediately sought out his niece, and, seating himself by her side, fortified by his dinner and wine against the frowns of his lady, poured forth more than ever, vehement protestations of his delight at beholding her.

"I hope, Margaret," he said, turning to his daughter, "that you have taken the advantage of thus making your cousin's acquaintance."



But Margaret replied not a word.

"We must get you down to Lough Rea this summer must we not? By-the-bye,





you saw Norman there some long time ago?"

"Oh, yes!" Linda answered, "and I am so anxious to see him again! He was so good and kind to me!"

"Well, and I can answer for his being quite as kind and good to you now." And the uncle looked with real affection on his niece. "He will be in London immediately," Lord Curraghmore continued; we almost thought he would have been in time to have come with us to-day."



Norman Lawless had indeed reached Grosvenor Square that evening; and, hearing from his sister where the rest of the party had gone, determined to join them later. He really felt some curiosity to see his strange little cousin again. "Well, Isabella," said Norman Lawless, as he appeared before his sister on his way downstairs to his cab, "what did my Lady





think of this introduction to little Rosalinda ?"



"To judge by her temper," was the daughter's answer, "she certainly did not think pleasantly on the subject; I am glad that it was Margaret's turn, instead of mine, to go out. As for this cousin of ours, she'll not be much the better for an introduction to her relations. Margaret was ordered not to speak a word to this daughter of an Opera-singer."

The young man uttered something too like an execration to be recorded.



"It is quite impossible that we can be kind to her as you desire," Isabella continued ; "we dare not do otherwise than obey our mother, servile-like slaves as we are."



"Yea, poor wretches, you have certainly your necks well under the yoke! Thank Heaven, I am a man; and I suppose even as a boy, I had the moral courage to shake





off her Ladyship's trammels, for I should like to see her attempt to crush me." And so saying, he departed, filled with all the vain glory of a young man who through life had always the ball at his feet.

Music had commenced at Carlton Gardens when young Lawless ascended the spacious staircase leading to the drawing



rooms.

The sound of a beautiful voice fell upon his ears as he advanced through the first apartment, which was empty, every one having evidently crowded into the next, from which the music issued.



Captain Lawless, desiring the groom of the chambers not to interrupt the music by announcing him, did not issue through the folding-doors. He was passionately fond of music, and the exquisitely-toned notes which gushed forth so artistically, pouring forth a song so well known, and





yet which never palls upon the senseshe would fain listen in the repose of that deserted apartment.

"Whom have they got here to-night, I wonder?" he thought, as he approached nearer to the folding-doors, from whence . he could look into the music-room without being recognised. "I do not know that voice. What a fresh, lovely thing it is! -something new, I suppose. Sinclair is always picking up unknown stars. Holloa!" he exclaimed, sotto voce, as he gained a full view of the performer, "who the devil is that?" And for a moment or two he held his breath between wonder and doubt. "By Jove, it is her! No. Can it be that ugly little imp turned into such a lovely girl? It cannot really be my cousin! Yet now I see it all: those bright eyes flashing as she sings, and that look coming over her face which made her even rather





pretty then, when she turned so adoringly to me, and the moonbeams lighted up her dark face. Good Heavens, what a voice!" And Norman leant against the wall, perfectly enraptured.

Linda was certainly singing her very best. Lord Sinclair, determined to show off her powers to the very utmost, had engaged her singing master, the famous Signor L, to accompany her. He was anxious that Mr. Vernon, so scientific a connoisseur, should not be disappointed after having heard so much of Linda's vocal powers; and he who used to be such a worshipper of her mother's voice.

Linda had gladly obeyed his summons to the instrument. Singing was, to her, second nature; she sang with as little trouble as she spoke; she had no feeling of timidity in doing that which was so pleasant, so natural to her; and too re





lieved was she to escape from her stiff position by the side of Margaret Lawless, Lady Curraghmore's eyes so often turned upon her with anything but pleasing contemplation.

"You must come into the next room and hear Linda sing, Lady Curraghmore," said Lord Sinclair, offering her his arm to take her to a commodious position; and her Ladyship was led forth with anything but harmony at her heart, followed by her daughter.

Good, kind Lord Sinclair, with all your best intentions, this was a most impolitic act. Could you not at once have seen that there was no music in the soul of that hard-countenanced woman, and have guessed that, with all her proud, and, at the same time, narrow-minded Scotch prejudices, any circumstance which tended to revive, in her mind, the origin of her hus





band's niece would be injudicious in the extreme ?

But the Sunderlands, one and all, were rather infatuated upon the subject of music, and their love for the memory of Rosalinda, had quite obliterated from their ideas anything derogatory, in the position of one so super-excellent as a woman, so talented as an artiste. That any one should despise her innocent young daughter never entered their amiable imaginations; all they thought at the moment, was to gratify her relations by displaying the vocal powers of their niece. Therefore Lady Sunderland took her seat by Lady Curraghmore, never doubting her participation in the pleasure that every one must derive from the beautiful song, which was about to be sung.

It was not half finished when Norman took up his post by the door in the





adjoining room, and his eyes at once made a rapid survey of all the party there assembled. He saw his father drinking in with unfeigned delight the clear liquid strains of Linda's voice; and his mother!

It was indeed a mistake in that instance to say that

"Music has charms to soothe the savage breast."



In Lady Curraghmore's case, the sweet sounds seemed rather to rouse the demon which resided there; and Norman knew exactly what was passing in her mind as she looked at the poor girl-so young, so artless, and now so pleasant, he thought, to gaze upon. He thought, how merciful it is for her that she has such friends in the Sunderlands! for how would she have fared had she only to rely upon the "tender mercies" of my mother?





And then the young man gave himself up wholly to the delight of the music.

Norman Lawless was not entirely devoid of softer feelings. The beautiful and pathetic composition which Linda sang, softened his heart towards the poor girl, as there she stood, in her white-robed innocence, exposed to the ruthless gaze of his mother.

But Linda was at this moment no object of pity. The song soon ended, and she was the cynosure of every eye; all, save his mother and sister, crowded around her to offer their meed of praise and of congratulation Mr. Vernon more emphatic than all in his eulogium, although he only said, "You are indeed your mother's child."

Lord Sinclair looked proud indeed; and Lady Sunderland, advancing towards Linda, kissed her affectionately, and this example was immediately followed by Lord Curraghmore, who, with much warmth, and all the





emphatic intonation of his own country, exclaimed as he fervidly embraced her

"And indeed you are a sweet singing bird, my own darling little niece; and you must let us have another song, for I have not had half enough of that voice of a real angel."

"And I hope you are pleased with Linda's singing?" asked Lady Sunderland, turning to Lady Curraghmore, who had risen from

her seat.



"Oh, I dare say it is all very fine, but I do not consider myself qualified to judge of opera-singing in a drawing-room; and, indeed, Lady Sunderland, to tell you the truth, it is rather painful to be reminded of my lord's niece's antecedents. But I must wish you good night," she continued, to the amazed Lady Sunderland, to whom this bitterly spoken outbreak was quite unexpected; "we are going to Lady L-'s ball, and she begged me not to be late. Come,





Margaret: your father, of course, will not



accompany us.'

And the lady, after making a low courtesy, stalked away, almost touching her son with the ample skirts of her dress as she passed close to him, but with her head thrown too high up in the air to perceive his vicinity, he certainly trying as much as possible to make himself invisible behind the folds of the portière of the folding-doors.

Margaret at once spied out her brother, but a significant look from him soon conveyed to her his intention of being incog.; and a moment after, the coast being clear, he issued forth to join the party congregated round the elated and highly-delighted young songstress.

She saw him not till he was close beside her, and a voice had whispered in her ear“Will not the mountain kelpie speak to her cousin?"





Linda started and looked round, but no rapturous greeting such as he had expected from her ensued. Deadly pale she looked as she turned her eyes upon the young man, but she neither spoke nor moved.



"Is this the manner in which you receive me?" Norman said as he eagerly took her hand and affectionately pressed it. “I thought you would be glad to see me again, Rosalinda ?"



But still no word passed her lips, which were quivering with emotion.

Yes, the so-longed-for time had indeed. arrived. Norman stood before her, and the surprise and joy of the moment were more than she could bear, for, after struggling in vain to subdue her feelings, she burst into tears.



How fortunate that Lady Curraghmore had departed! How would she have construed this scene!-and how would her hatred





towards the young girl have deepened, had she seen her son's impressive manner towards her—how kindly, even tenderly, he who, in his own family, never evinced a spark of natural feeling, soothed poor Linda! and Lord Curraghmore, the genuine warmth of his nature excited to the utmost pitch, hanging over his niece and fondling her with truly paternal warmth. This nervous outbreak was attributed to the exertion she had made in singing for the first time before so many people. But soon the emotion began to subside, and smiles of the brightest joy chased away her tears. How happy she felt between the two relations her warm heart had received at once, with such perfect faith and love-that uncle who said such kind things, and Norman, who was ten thousand times more charming than even her glowing fancy had imagined him- so handsome, so



X





good to her. How she soon laughed and talked to him! they were once again by the river's side at Lough Rea, and the long mountain trajet to the Lodge was traversed through all its length.

"Do you remember this?" she cried, as she sprung towards the piano, and broke forth into the song of "Vaga Luna."

Yes, Norman did recollect the strain. It burst upon his ear with the same pleasurable sensation as when he was first startled by the thrilling voice, which sounded so wonderfully sweet coming from his little strange companion, in the clear atmosphere of the mountain passes.

Linda, now quite herself again, sang afterwards all that was required of her by Lord Sinclair, who had feared that he would not be able to show off her masterpiece to Mr. Vernon; but all went right at last, and the evening ended in a most satis





factory manner to all parties, save, indeed, to Lady Curraghmore.



"Well, Norman," his father exclaimed, as his son gave him a seat in his cab as far as the Club, "what do you think of my little niece?—is she not a little darling?" "Yes, a nice little creature she certainly is, and her voice bewitching; but what will my Lady say about her, I wonder? To tell you the truth, I was behind the door, unseen by her, and had an opportunity of watching her countenance, and I could plainly perceive that she was not in love with Rosalinda."



"Oh, yes; bother the woman!" was the conjugal ejaculation. "Her face is enough to turn everything sour. But I'll tell you what, Norman: I am not going to be balked in this matter. The girl is my niece, and she shall be received into my house, or I'll leave it for good: sick enough am I of it already."





you


"But don't trouble it much with your society even now," laughed the dutiful son. 'No; and could I live and bear more of it? No, not I; and, Norman, take my advice, and whatever you do marry, let her be a pretty woman, and, if possible, a goodtempered one; then, maybe, matrimony will not be such a nauseous pill as I have found it."



Norman laughed again, and said, "Well, it was your own fault. Why did you ever attempt to swallow such a dose? You must have been well aware from the first that my gracious mother was neither pretty nor good-tempered."



"Why did I swallow it? Why, blood and zounds, boy, don't you know that there was no choice left me between matrimony and the Queen's Bench. Oh, many were the wry faces I made before I could take the physic; but she would have me, and what was a poor beggar to do? Heigho!





I will say this for my Lady, that on the whole, barring the temper, she has been a better wife than I have been a husband."



"Well, I'm glad you have the grace, at least, to confess that, my most respectable of fathers; for, certainly, if my mother has her sins, so have you."

"Oh, yes, upon my soul, Norman; and take heed, by the word of a poor devil, and keep out of them, by marrying in a year or two some girl you can love. As for my Lady Curraghmore, I am always ready to give the devil his due; and certainly she has, by her sharp management, made the Curraghmore property look up, and that will be a good thing for you some of these fine days, my boy."

They had now reached the Club, and Norman set down his father, who probably never left the whist-table till the morning dawned.





CHAPTER XXII.



THERE was a regular "breeze" in Grosvenor Square the next day- Lord Curraghmore and Norman Lawless versus her Ladyship.

Linda, of course, was the subject of dispute. Lord Curraghmore insisted that his niece should become an habituée in the house; Lady Curraghmore obstinately rejected the idea of her daughters being mixed up, she said, "with a girl who was an actress every inch of her."

Norman interposed indignantly; took up the cudgels for poor Linda with a violence. which certainly savoured little of the respect due to a mother; and his Lordship, backed



H





by his son, gave loose to a tongue which, when much excited, scorned to make use of any accent save that of his native brogue.

We must remember that his Lordship and his brother had been born and bred in one of the remotest parts of Ireland, receiving no education save that which they picked up promiscuously. Valentine had an innate taste for learning and refinement his elder brother possessed none.

Two against one at last prevailed, particularly as one of the combatants was her son, to whom she had always in a measure succumbed, even from a child; so, to cut the matter short, from this time may be dated Linda's entrance into her father's family.



"You must not mind my mother, Linda," Norman said, by way of preparation; "she is the most disagreeable woman on earth;





not a creature but dislikes and fears her. She will, no doubt, try to make herself as odious as possible to you, but what does it signify? And those two poor wretches of sisters of mine,-it will be impossible to get on very well with them; but it is only right, proper, and natural that you should associate with your own family, and not be entirely indebted to the Sunderlands for a home. Promise me not to take to heart anything my mother may say or do, but to be deaf and blind when you are with her, and my father and I will support you whenever we can."



And Linda promised to obey her cousin. What cared she for anything, so he was by to cheer her with his smile?



And so it went on, that she was often in Grosvenor Square, hardening herself as much as possible to her aunt's repellent reception, and her two cousins' cold manners.



ト





Not only did Isabella and Margaret tremble under the yoke of their mother's displeasure, should they relax in their distant conduct towards their cousin, but, imbibing her spirit and example, they really disliked Linda. Her superior attractions, her singing, the unwonted fuss their father made about her, and Norman's affectionate manners towards this stranger, -so much more like a brother was he towards her than he had ever been to them, -all this was wormwood to their feelings. But they dared not disobey him, so completely were they also under his spell, when he ordered them to do all they could to make her feel at home in Grosvenor Square, and, above all, warned them at their peril never to talk to her of her mother, the "Opera-singer," as they sneeringly called her.

So this matter proceeded, Linda enduring much that was most disagreeable,





for the sake of occasional moments of happiness vividly enjoyed in the society of this cherished cousin, and her kind demonstrative uncle, whose cheery voice was music to her ears in the heavy atmosphere of the triste mansion in Grosvenor Square.

And Norman Lawless really was very fond of Linda, and gave her as much of his time and thoughts as he could spare from the pursuit which was every day more and more absorbing his every feeling,- the passionate love with which he was influenced towards the brilliant flirt, Car Eversfield.

It was in June that Lord and Lady Sunderland, accompanied by Linda, went to Torquay to see Lady Elizabeth, who was still very ailing, and they remained with her till August, when, hoping that the poor invalid would be able to follow them immediately, the party returned to London, and after a few days were en route to Bellemont.





Lady Sunderland was persuaded to visit some friends who resided within a short drive of the Brookwood races, which they invited her to attend with her young friend, Miss Lawless.



And here we bring our readers to the time when Linda, all fresh to the excitement of a scene so completely new to her as the humours of a race-course, was enjoying everything to her very heart's core, being accompanied by Norman (also a visitor at the same house), who, grave and preoccupied as he was at the moment by his absorbing love for Car Eversfield, was still kind in his manner towards her.



It was there that she appeared face to face with one whose influence on her destiny she little could have guessed.



END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.


CHAPTER I.



Two girls are sauntering in a pretty sequestered walk, through a wood adjoining the pleasure-grounds of Everslee.

One is fair and pale, unpretending in all ways a black straw hat of no very becoming shape, and a little grey cloak of a light texture over her black dress, and a large basket on her arm. The other, a dazzling creature to look upon the smallest of hats perched upon her luxuriant, soft, dark hair; a jacket of a very knowing cut gracing her shoulders; and her dress, also of black, tucked up, so as









B





to display not only a radiant petticoat of gaudy colours, but an exquisite foot and ankle, chausséed in boots with the highest heels possible, and most plentifully decorated with little brass rings.

She walked impatiently before her sister in the narrow pathway, humming a tune; but to look at her face, bright as it might seem to a casual observer, there was, nevertheless, a cloud upon her brow—a dissatisfied expression upon the rosy mouth.

"How very smart and gay you look, Car, for this quiet walk. And your deep mourning!-why, you are sufficiently well dressed for Hyde Park. What a pity there is nobody to see you in this becoming costume!" was the quiet sister's remark.

"Gerry," Car exclaimed, stopping short and turning round, facing her companion, "these are the only sensible words I ever heard uttered by your silly lips. Yes," she continued, her eyes flashing; "why indeed do I take the trouble of dressing or doing





anything else here, in this thrice horrid place, this country home which I hate and detest," - her favourite expression,-"and which, I can tell you, I will not stand much longer?" Oh, Car, I wonder at you; I like it so very much, and should be so happy here if mamma was only better and happier, and you more contented."




"You idiot as you always were, or, I suppose I ought rather to say, you excellent worthy creature, the idol of all, the saint and martyr of your neighbours, and acquaintances, the Lady Bountiful of the village, the purloiner of broken meat, and old clothes! Upon my word, Miss Geraldine, the way you watch me when I am eating my luncheon, sitting as you do ready to pounce upon my plate, should I fortunately leave a bone unpicked, makes me quite nervous; and the daggers you look, should I by ill-luck fancy a bit of pudding you have set your heart upon transferring into that basket of yours." "Oh, Car," said Geraldine, laughing, "you





don't know what good those scraps do-how glad the poor people are to get them; and really, I am quite sure you would be interested if you were to come with me sometimes into the cottages."

"Geraldine, you are more than ever idiotic. I know you don't mind my calling you so, dear; it is not because I don't think you are a really good little wretch, but it is my way of designating your queer doings, for you are certainly idiotic,- that idiotic,—that is to say, in my sense of the word."

"But, Car, I really do not at all see the sense of the comparison," Geraldine answered, rather in a piqued tone of voice.





"Well, now, I'll tell you what I mean. Any one who can imagine there can be any enjoyment beyond the pale of the gay world, appears, to my mind, one bereft of sense, and consequently must be an idiot; and to see you just as, or rather far more, happy in this dreadful place, quite satisfied to drudge at home and go into those dirty





cottages, where people are often sick and in their fusty beds, and to pass Sunday after Sunday, in teaching those uninteresting brats, seems to me either the act of a lunatic or an idiot. I go with you into a cottage! No, thank you; I don't like the looks of cottagers, except forming a tableau in a ballet, when they look so picturesque in their pretty dresses and straw hats,the picture of cleanliness. Defend me from bona fide beggars, all rags and-we won't say what!"

Geraldine sighed in silence. She again followed her sister, who stalked on with a sort of defiant air. It was no use, she well knew, to argue the point with her. They had now left the wood, and were threading some fields leading to the village.

"Well," groaned Car, as some labouring men passed, and, attracted by her showy appearance, stared rudely, "there go some men, at any rate; it's even refreshing to see male clodhoppers; anything's better than





eternal women and children; and, I declare, here comes another he creature, that youth with the white choke-Mr. Hale, the curate. Well, faute de mieux, I shall attack him! Oh, how he amused me at church last Sunday!"

"Oh, pray, Car, don't!" interposed Geraldine: "the poor man is so shy."







Well, what do I care? So much the better; it will be some excitement in this dull hole to give him a few instructions to 'teach his young ideas how to shoot,' and how to behave himself in the company of pretty ladies. But, oh, good gracious! what a Guy the man is!"

Poor Mr. Hale! What an ordeal for him to have to encounter, at some short distance, the approach of the two Miss Eversfields. There was no escape for him; no by-path into which he could turn to get out of their way; the hedge was too high and too impervious either to jump over or creep through. No, there was no alternative but





to face the young ladies; and oh, poor man! he had before looked upon the bright, flaunting Car, and those eyes of hers had already been too much for his weak mind had caused him to blunder even in the reading-desk.

Yes, the agonies the young man had to endure shy by nature; having for the first time to make his début in that country church; the square pew of Everslee exactly opposite to the reading-desk; five pair of young ladies' eyes, not including the governess's, pertinaciously fixed upon his face; and one pair amongst them-oh! what a commotion they made in the young curate's heart!

Mr. Hale was fair-complexioned, with a colour which agitation always heightened to nearly a purple hue, his ears (seeming to catch fire from his cheeks) burning with a crimson flame.

We pity him sincerely, and have often marvelled how shy young men, fresh to the





duties of the pulpit, have the moral courage to get over their first initiation, having to face a merciless assemblage; the nervous feeling which even the sound of their own voices must occasion in that unaccustomed place, alone must be an ordeal; and then to be the mark for every eye to fix upon; yes, every eye in the sacred edifice, whether it may be small or large, directed at once, and then usually fixed, whether it may be in earnest attention, or deep reverie, on the face of the perhaps naturally bashful young beginner; for, from whatever cause it may arise, whether devotion or absence of mind, certainly the officiating clergyman has generally the benefit of the fixed stare of the largest portion of the congregation.

Car saw at once how it fared with the new curate, and, mischievous girl as she always was, delighted in the discovery. A victim at once stood before her: something (though indeed it was but a pis aller) to give her a little sport.





"Yes, I'll hook that shy fish,” she thought. "What a goose of a man he looks!" she continued to muse, as she fixed her eyes steadily upon the curate, who felt their gaze penetrating his every fibre, although he tried not to look that way; but it was easy to perceive that his face became deeper and deeper dyed, his ears more and more fiery red, and, perhaps fortunately to avert a fit of apoplexy, the perspiration starting from every pore, necessitating a frequent mopping of his forehead.

But still the inexorable Car continued to stare on, and the curate to falter, stammer, perspire, and make such blunders that a less indulgent rector than Mr. Brooke would have at once pronounced him quite inadequate to the post he had to fill as his curate. But he received compassionately the excuses which the agitated young man poured forth after the service was over, and that afternoon quite retrieved his reputation, for Car Eversfield was not in the





family pew. She had had enough, she said, of church for one day.

Mr. Hale would this afternoon have passed the young ladies with only a bow, but was not permitted. Car stopped short,





-they had been previously introduced to him by the rector,—and now began in her most insinuating manner to talk to the young man, saying everything that came uppermost in her mind; even adding (false one as she was), "Mr. Hale, I was quite delighted with your voice in reading the service on Sunday."

"Oh, Miss Eversfield, I fear you are only joking. I am quite aware how badly I did the duty; but, to confess the truth, I really felt unaccountably nervous."

"Oh, yes; I could see that. I watched you throughout the whole service with much interest, Mr. Hale. A first appearance on any stage (forgive me the expressionit is not, I fear, quite clerical) must always be a trial; but the intonation of a voice can never be mistaken."





Mr. Hale was, indeed, in for it now. He had been going in quite another direction on parish business, but soon all that was forgotten, and he turned back and was walking towards the village with the two girls, Car, in high spirits, doing her best to precipitate the young man fathom deep into the gulf of destruction to peace of mind, into which she so gloried in plunging her victims, no matter who or what they might be, and she followed it up to the full in this mad scheme of amusement pour le moment; Geraldine, the sober-minded, quiet, modest sister, distressed and shocked, knowing well what Car was about, and sorry for the poor man, who, Mr. Brooke told them, had come to Eversfield full of good intentions, and most anxious to prove himself a faithful servant, in the service he had undertaken. "But Car," she mused, "that unfortunate sister of mine- she will turn the poor man's head, and unfit him for aught else."





Geraldine could have wrung her hands when she thought not only of this new phase in her sister's conduct, but on all the trouble and distress she was daily causing her parents and all belonging to her.





CHAPTER II.



WHEN We last left Car Eversfield, our readers may remember that it was immediately after the distressing scene which had been enacted after the General had received Captain Lawless's indignant rejection of his daughter, who only a few hours before had been this young man's affianced wife.

The father was indeed in a pitiable condition. Seated before him in the railway carriage was the child so fondly loved, and yet so fallen in his estimation, so changed even in appearance since they had travelled together so short a time ago. No longer brilliant, well turned out, radiant with smiles; but with swollen eyes, pale cheeks,





dishevelled hair, neglected dress, and downcast looks, not daring to meet that hitherto so indulgent father's eyes.

Unfortunate General! he was thinking of many things which well-nigh distracted



him.



His wife how should he break to her the news? She, so ill in health, so unhappy for the last accounts of the little boy had been most unfavourable, and the mother's heart was bleeding at the certainty which plainly stared her in the face, of losing her child.

This poor mother, so sick and sorrowful! and now he must add to her griefs by the news he had to impart; and then again

And Car, as she furtively looked at her father, saw his cheek flush, his eyes gleam, and his teeth clench themselves together: never had she seen her father look like that. And then he would lean his head upon his hand, and appear to muse deeply,





suddenly starting up from his attitude of dejection and looking around, as if he had almost forgotten even where he was.

"What can he look so wild for? What is he going to do?" Car thought, with real terror, as thus she watched her father. "Does he intend to kill me, or that dear, naughty man? Would that I had not gone down to meet him! But what harm, after all, did we do? He is old enough to be my father, and as such I suppose I considered him; so if he did -

Here she blushed rosy red, and for a brief moment a smile played round her lips; but it soon died away, as she again observed her father's restless, distracted movements. The fact is, Sir Hector's mind was in a chaos of perplexity as well as distress, his blood boiling to avenge the insult offered to him by Lord' Glendinnon's late conduct towards his daughter. For to what did Lawless allude? Something disgraceful, no doubt; Car was quite equal to anything.





"And yet, if I chastise the scoundrel, the affair will be bruited about and ex

aggerated in every direction, and the girl is ruined for ever.

have to live and bear it"

distracted father groaned aloud.



Yet, to And the



They were alone in the carriage. Car sprang forwards and threw herself upon her father's breast, twining her arms round his neck.

"Papa-darling papa," she cried, with real feeling, "don't look so! What is the matter? I have been very foolish, very wrong; but, after all, there is nothing so very dreadful in what I have done to make

you look so terrible. Oh, papa! papa!" she continued, as she clung so tenaciously to him, wetting his face with her tears, whilst she kissed him over and over again, the poor man becoming every moment more and more passive in her grasp; "I am a wild, foolish, oh, yes, no doubt, a wicked girl; but not so bad in this instance as you think, and Lord Glendinnon





"Don't name that villain!" Sir Hector furiously exclaimed, endeavouring to shake her off.

"Why call him such a name?" Car persisted. "I suppose it was wrong of him. to ask me to walk with him at such an hour; but, papa, he is quite an old man — almost as old as you are- and I suppose he thought

"A thousand curses on his thoughts!" was the fiercely-muttered interruption.

"Yes, he thought," Car continued, “there was no great harm in asking me to join him in a stroll by the river, the moon shining quite as light as day, and I leaning out of my window and longing to go out. I'll tell you what I think, papa," Car exclaimed, feeling that she was gaining ground, and that her father did not, as at first, endeavour to disengage himself so roughly from her close embrace, "that Norman Lawless is a jealous, bad-tempered, horrid man; I never liked him.





Why did he not come and join us in our walk? We should have been very glad of his company, I should, I know: for, darling pappy, I soon began to feel that I was, perhaps, doing wrong."

And this girl, so false and yet so insinuating, began again to weep and caress her father. And the poor man did feel comforted, and tried to believe that all she said was true; that perhaps he had been too harsh in his judgment both of her conduct and Lord Glendinnon's.

We all know that Car Eversfield was a most unprincipled girl, a heartless flirt; but still there was something about her, which we cannot portray, indescribably fascinating. She was indeed a syren, possessing the art of captivation to a most wonderful extent. Perhaps it was her fresh beauty, her smile, the expression of good-nature which beamed from her facefor, with all her faults, the girl, though she had occasional tantrums, was essentially





good-tempered and affectionate, at least in her outward bearing.

But what the wonderful charm was that she possessed, by which she enthralled the senses, it is impossible to describe.

To her father she had always been inexpressibly dear; and now, as she thus hung over him, her soft wet cheeks resting upon his, her arms so tightly encircling him, her tender kisses on his lips, her words of love and contrition pouring forth so mournfully, his heart began to melt most weakly. When the train stopped at a station, and the door of the carriage opened to admit a passenger, he said

"Well, well, Car, compose yourself, and wipe your eyes;" and by the tone in which the words were spoken, the culprit felt that the worst was over.

And as she disengaged herself from her father's arms, and took her seat by his side, she could see that on his face there were





large tears, but perhaps they were those she had been shedding.

"Poor dear pappy!" she mused, "how I have tormented him! I wish, oh, how I wish I could be good for his sake; but"

They had reached the station, three miles from Everslee. No carriage had been ordered to meet them. Sir Hector and his daughter got into a fly, leaving Fenton, with the luggage, to follow in another. Car did not lose the opportunity of improving the ground which she had already gained over her father's feelings.

"Papa, you will not be too severe upon me with mamma; you know that already she has the worst opinion of me; and really, although I know I am to blame, yet indeed, indeed, the fault lies chiefly with that horrid, revengeful Norman Lawless. I never liked him, and should only have married him because I know you all want to get rid of poor troublesome me." And she





leant her head on Sir Hector's shoulders, and wept again.

The foolish man-he felt terribly inclined to put his arm round her waist, and press his darling to his heart, but with a strong effort restrained himself, and said, as severely as he could

"Of course, I shall endeavour to spare your mother's feelings as much as possible, Car, in her present state; but my opinion you already know: and until I have every proof that you are thoroughly changed, you will never be to me what you have been."

"But I will try to change, dearest papa," were Car's last words before the fly drove up to the door of her home.





CHAPTER III.



How dull the house looked! Every blind was down, and yet the sun was not shining: the day, on the contrary, was very gloomy. Sir Hector at once opened the door of the vehicle, and, without waiting to assist his daughter to alight, hastily got out, strode up the stone steps, and endeavoured to enter. But the door was locked.

He rang the bell impatiently, and almost immediately the old butler appeared. There was no possibility of doubting, from his countenance, that he was laden with evil tidings.

"How is her Ladyship?" Sir Hector asked hastily.

"My Lady is very ill; and oh, Sir Hector,





poor little Master Henry!" and the faithful old servant turned away to hide his tears.

Sir Hector became deadly pale, and for a moment sat down on a hall chair; this brave man and soldier was trembling from head to foot whilst he murmured, "My poor wife! "

And then a pale fair girl might have been seen flying down the great staircase, and in another moment was in his arms, mingling her tears gently and silently with his; and Car, with her vociferous lamentations, also kneeling at his feet, and in loud sobs ejaculating the name of "poor, poor little Henry!"

But Sir Hector soon rose from the seat his momentary weakness had obliged him to take, and said, in a voice husky from emotion, "Now, Geraldine, take me to your mother."

And his good daughter, linking her arm affectionately in that of her father, led him to her mother's room; while Car, rushing





into the drawing-room, threw herself upon a sofa, burying her face in the cushions, and weeping tears both of sorrow and of exhaustion, for it had been to her a day of most unwonted agitation and fatigue. No food had she tasted, save a few mouthfuls of coffee before leaving Westover. It was no wonder, then, that tired nature after a while gave way, and that soon deep sleep had rendered her happily oblivious of the troubles which, for the first time throughout the course of her careless, joyous existence, had ever touched her selfish feelings.

Geraldine had sought her sister, and finding her thus, was at first tempted to awaken her; but she changed her mind, and went to seek Nurse Nelson, not in the nursery, but in the quiet room which had been appropriated to the sick child, and in which his little coffin now stood. She found the poor woman, her head buried in her hands, crying as if her heart would break.





"Dear Nelson," she said, as with sad, noiseless steps she advanced and threw her arms round the nurse's neck, "Dear Nelson, it is not like you to give way to such bitter grief-you who have always been our only comfort and support through all this sorrow. What will mamma do if you break down? Papa is come, and Car. I went to seek her after I had taken him to poor mamma, and I found her fast asleep upon the drawingroom sofa. I want you, dear nurse, to go to her; you will do her more good than I can. She seemed dreadfully unhappy during the few moments I saw her, when they first arrived."

Mrs. Nelson was well-nigh tired out, poor woman, with watching and real sorrow; for she loved these children, whom she had received in her arms from their very birth, with quite as much warmth and sincerity as if they had been her own: and the sick child had been peculiarly dear to her, not only from his having been a most lovely





and interesting little creature, but because his long and suffering illness had drawn forth all the tenderness of her woman's heart.

But at these words of Geraldine, the nurse raised her weeping face.

"They are here, then," she said. "Your poor, poor papa-what a coming home for him! And Miss Car

my child? She asleep?"



What did you say,



"Yes, dear Nelson; but even in sleep she looks very wretched."

The nurse immediately arose: another child of her heart in distress: all her own feelings must be put aside at once. "I'll go to her; you won't mind staying here while I am away, darling," she added. "I cannot bear to leave him alone a moment, whilst he is still here."

"Oh, no; it will be a comfort, almost a happiness to me," Geraldine replied; "dear, darling little Henry! But, nurse, he must be so happy now!"





"Yes, yes, dear child, and very soon I shall feel thankful that the sweet lamb is safely folded, but just now God will forgive my mourning."

And so saying, wiping her streaming eyes, she left Geraldine alone in the chamber of death, to seek another loved one. But even as she slowly went along, she thought-"Ah! that sweet, darling boy, he is indeed 'safely folded.' But Miss Car, Miss Car; my mind always misgives me when I think of her. Had it pleased God to take that child when she was as innocent and without guile as that dear babe, we might now be rejoicing over her sweet memory, as of another angel in heaven, instead of living, as we do now, in the constant dread lest she should do something wrong -something that will bring sorrow upon us all." On her way downstairs she met Fenton, the ladies' maid, who had just arrived. The two faithful servants met sadly. They had been friends together for





the many long years they had lived under the same roof.

"Yes," said Fenton, "nothing but distress for my poor Lady and Sir Hector. Oh, Nelson, even before he heard the news of the blessed little boy being removed, he was half mad with trouble."

"Oh, mercy!" cried Nelson, turning quite faint, "what next am I to hear?"

"Oh, Miss Car, of course,—she has been at her old pranks: but, Nelson, you'll hear all in time, and I promised Sir Hector to say as little as possible upon the subject; so you must not ask me any more questions. My poor Lady - how is she?"

After a little more conversation, Nelson proceeded to the drawing-room, and there, as Geraldine had said, she found Car stretched upon the sofa, sleeping profoundly. The nurse approached, and contemplated the sleeper. "Poor child," she thought, as she continued to gaze, "how strange she looks,-so unlike herself,-such





a miserable expression upon that usually laughing mouth, and those large tears not yet dried upon her pale cheeks, her hair so untidy, as if it had not been touched this morning, - such a different look altogether about her. God help us, what has the child been doing?—and my poor Lady so pleased to hear that there was so good a marriage in prospect for her troublesome child-a drop of comfort in all her distress. Ah, me! light, indeed, is the death of an innocent babe when compared with the misery of watching the downward career of a living creature dear to one's heart. My little darling who lies so cold and stiff upstairs yes, you are indeed safe; but this poor child what is to become of her?" And Nurse Nelson's tears fell fast, and far more bitterly than before.





"But I won't disturb her," she decided; "I'll bring a shawl and wrap her up, she is so fast asleep, poor thing; and methinks her awakening will be none of the pleasantest."





But just as the nurse was preparing to put her intention into execution, Car opened her eyes, at first wearily, and unconsciously looking with perplexed gaze around her. Speedily, however, the whole truth of the present rushed upon her mind, and she had sprung up from her pillow, and was clinging around her nurse, feeling a security in that position which brought balm to her heart.







Oh, nursey, nursey, I have been behaving so ill! I have made papa so angry; and my marriage with Captain Lawless is all off."

Mrs. Nelson groaned, but she said nothing.

"What will mamma say, Nelson?" "Your mamma is so very unhappy, Miss Car, just now, that perhaps your papa will say as little as possible to vex her."

"Yes, I know she is; and so am I. Poor darling little Henry!"

"Not poor little Henry, but happy,





sainted little Henry," was the answer, rather sternly spoken- for Nelson's heart began to rebel against even this her hitherto favourite nursling, whose faults became more inexcusable day by day.

"Yes yes, he is safe and happy, I know," Car continued, in a humbled voice; "not like me; for were I to die, oh! Nelson, what would become of me?"

And now she really turned deadly white, and began to shiver perceptibly. "I am very faint, nurse, and feel so



ill!"



And then again came a complete revulsion in Mrs. Nelson's feelings. Car really suffering, and all her tenderness again gushed forth. Soon she had put her into her bed, had given her nourishment, was petting and fondling her as in past times, and listening with extenuating ears to the story which her favourite poured forth— Car, of course, with her usual disregard for truth, clothing every particular with a





colouring which completely changed the aspect of the affair, and throwing much of the blame, at least, off her own shoulders.

"Yes," Nelson began to think, "it was more than half the fault of that good-for-nothing reprobate, Lord Glendinnon; and then that young firebrand, Captain Lawless, to take it up in such a manner! And, poor child, she says she would have given worlds had he joined her in that foolish walk; but in every way, however we may try to make the best of it, it is a bad business."

Car was really indisposed for a day or two; and the deceitful girl took good care to improve the circumstance to her advantage. The indulgent people by whom she was surrounded attributed everything to distress of mind and repentant feelings; and her father, as he sat in deep dejection by her bedside, now speaking words of tender soothing, hoped that this severe lesson might prove in the end a blessing, and that his child might come forth an improved character.





Poor man! how easily can affection throw dust in one's eyes-obscure the vision from discerning what is sincere, and what is counterfeit.

He made the best of the story to Lady Julia, who at that time was in too great affliction to be very severe upon her daughter; and when they met, nothing passed between them but tears.

So Car, as she generally contrived to do, if she did not get off scot free, at least fared better than she deserved or expected. It was certainly a bore and a gêne to her to have to keep in abeyance all the wild thoughts and schemes with which her mind was filled, and to play the meek penitent—to look sad when she only felt bored to pretend to be, in short, what she was not.





Soon the slight sorrow which her little brother's death had for the moment caused, wore off, and it was a wearisome task to





try to enter into the feelings of regret which were universal in the house.

She was terribly ennuyée, particularly as she had not even the luxury of being able to give way to her usual flights either of playful petulance or mischievous fun.

Anything would have been better than this feint of amiability.

Car really did not know what to do with herself. She could easily perceive that every one looked upon her with instinctive dread and suspicion. The governess was evidently most fidgety and uncomfortable whenever she entered the school-room to which her three younger sisters belonged.

Geraldine had her own occupations, which almost entirely engrossed her time; and her attendance upon Lady Julia was also unremitting, for military business took Sir Hector often away.

So thus this restless, excitable creature had to drag on an existence so terribly at variance with her nature.





CHAPTER IV.



LORD GLENDINNON, on leaving Westover, did not feel quite so completely at his ease as usual. It was seldom that any act of his, good, bad, or indifferent, made the slightest impression upon his mind.

In general perfectly callous as to the opinion of the world, what mattered it to him what people thought or said? But, somehow or another, in this instance, wonderful to say, his conscience rather pricked him.





His valet was an old and confidential servant a very fit attendant for such a master a crafty, unprincipled man, who had always been a useful tool in furthering many a dark intrigue, and who had become





a necessary evil to his employer, gaining, as is generally the case under such circumstances, a sort of influence over the mind of him he served, difficult either to shake off or to keep within proper bounds.



His



"No man is a hero to his valet de chambre;" and certainly Lord Glendinnon was not one to Monsieur Coitier. peeps behind the curtain had very much shorn the renowned hero of his refulgent beams of glory; and the crafty Frenchman, with perfectly disenchanted perception, was thoroughly aware of every weak spot in his lordship's temperament, and acted accordingly.

"I fear milord has been disturbed early this morning?" Coitier demanded, as he was assisting at Lord Glendinnon's elaborate toilette, the morning of Car's departure from Westover.

"Disturbed! why should I be disturbed?" was the answer.

"Only because there was a terrible





fracas in the house ever since it was light."

"What the devil was the matter?" Lord Glendinnon asked, his last night's adventure still retaining a fresh hold on his memory.

"There seemed to be a great deal the matter, that General Sir Hector carrying off the lovely young lady, his daughter, as if she had committed some very great crime. Ma foi! as I passed her room, how loud that papa of hers was storming; and when at length she came forth to get into the carriage, how changed the beautiful creature looked her eyes so red, her cheeks so pale!"

A flush of colour evidently passed over Lord Glendinnon's face.

"Well! d― it, go on; what else?" "The young Captain Lawless, he was off too, but long before Sir Hector. I happened to be early from my bed this morning, and I saw it all, his servant take a





letter to Sir Hector's footman, telling him to give it to his master when he was gone. I looked out of a window not far from the hall-door, and saw the young Captain's face quite white: he looked so as I should not have liked to have met him alone in a dark lane. Oh! it was a bad expression, that young man's; those fair men-don't you think, milord, they have a look more farouche in their faces, when they are in a passion, than darker-complexioned people?"

Lord Glendinnon glared on the free-andeasy Frenchman.

"Hold your tongue about all that folly, you prating rascal, and go on with what you were saying about Sir Hector!"



Sir



"I know little more upon that subject, milord; something must have gone very wrong, to judge by appearances. Hector, though not a fair gentleman, looked quite as ready to cut throats as the young monsieur in the Guards. The





poor young lady!—I felt pity for her; and even was sorry for the lady's maid, though she is not either young or pretty, she looked si abattue-'chopfallen,' as the English would say."

Lord Glendinnon asked no more questions: the whole state of the case came clearly before his mind, and he was really annoyed on every account. He had played the fool immensely, and certainly it was with edged tools he had been amusing himself.

Sir Hector was the last man in the world to endure anything of this sort, and, bad man as he was, he could not avoid respecting one who stood so high in everybody's estimation. And with regard to this young Lawless, he had certainly destroyed all chance of that affair being concluded; but that little mattered. then, again, the girl-and, wonderful to say, Car had made a much deeper impression upon the vitiated taste of this matured



And





libertine than any other object of his fleeting fancy had done for many a day. She suited him in every point of view-so young, so fresh, and evidently so taken with his perfections.

The high and mighty lord most assuredly went down to breakfast that morning with less of easy assurance at his heart than was his natural wont, and felt a degree of uncomfortable consciousness when he happened to catch the eye of Lady Millicent fixed so searchingly upon him. And even his railway journey to London had not removed the unrest of his sensations. The next morning, Lord Glendinnon read in the papers the announcement of the death of Sir Hector's child; and as he sat musing over the events of the day, an idea struck him, and, immediately acting upon it, he commenced writing the following letter:





"MY DEAR EVERSFIELD,



"Glendinnon House.



"Allow me to express my sympathy in your recent affliction. I have just read the death of your boy in the Times, and sincerely trust Lady Julia bears the loss as well as it is possible under such a calamity.

"I also write to ask you, my dear fellow, to forgive what I fear you may have magnified into worse than folly, and of which I am heartily ashamed.

"You will think - and no wonderthat I am quite old enough to have known better; but perhaps that is the very excuse that I now make for having beguiled your daughter into taking a stroll with me on Wednesday night, - or rather morning. Such a grey-headed fellow as I am quite as old, I really believe, as her father—I thought might venture to propose what would not have been the proper thing in a





younger man; and your daughter looked so longingly into the delicious moonlight scene, as she sat at her open window, that my evil genius prompted me to invite her to come out. I give you my word that I should have confessed my sin to you the next morning; but certainly the circumstance, innocent as it was of all actual harm, has produced results which I would give my remaining arm to have prevented.

"But there is nothing now to be done but to throw myself upon your generous forbearance, my hitherto good friend, and I only trust you will at least exonerate Miss Eversfield from any blame in the affair. I ought indeed to have known better.

"However, for her sake I would suggest to you that, living as we do in a lying and slanderous world, it would be as well for the sake of that young lady, for whom I entertain such high respect, that this episode should not be exaggerated; and, my dear Eversfield, the only way at once to





crush down falsehood and detraction is to show the venomous monsters with which society abounds that you do not look upon my conduct as such as to demand the withdrawal of your friendship. For heaven's sake, my dear Eversfield, let us be seen together, and the d-lish lies which may be hatched out of this silly affair (I really can call it by no other name) will soon die natural deaths.

"No doubt you are most justly offended with me, and I am heartily sorry that I should have brought annoyance upon a man whom I esteem above all others; and I also most deeply deplore that Miss Eversfield (the last young lady in the world, from her child-like innocence and simplicity, to become the object of malevolent detraction) should run any risk of being mixed up in any vulgar scandal of the sort.

"I remain, dear Eversfield,







Truly and faithfully yours,

"GLENDINNON."





Sir Hector received this letter, so apparently straightforward, nay, even humble, at a favourable moment. His heart was softened by the sorrow which pervaded the house; his wife's illness and Car's indisposition -of which she made the very most -distressed him sorely, and completely melted his anger towards her.

For her sake, perhaps it would be as well to act as had been pointed out by the wily man of the world.

What else could he do? He felt fettered by the love he bore to all belonging to him; and though in his heart of hearts he gave Lord Glendinnon no quarter, yet for their sakes he must sacrifice that burning desire to chastise the man who had thus presumed to act in a manner which had brought about such disastrous results.

Sir Hector was, indeed, greatly to be pitied. His domestic troubles seemed daily to increase, and he was also harassed by public business.





Yes, he was an overburdened father of a family; and those few words comprise an amount of care not to be estimated by the lightly-troubled heart of a bachelor.





CHAPTER V.



Two months had passed-interminable months to Car.

Yes, she was quite weary of playing good, and to the fullest extent acted up to her intention of turning the curate's weak heart, and creating for herself a sort of second-hand excitement. And this certainly proved no very difficult task.

Indeed, so easily did the poor man succumb, that the young lady would have thought the sport too tame to be continued, had she had anything else upon which to exercise her powers. Geraldine looked on, shocked and distressed, when she saw the young man neglecting his duties, and in a





fair way of losing the confidence of his



rector.



Mr. Hale was much changed in appearance since Car had bewitched him. His dress was no longer such as to distinguish at first sight his grave profession, but had been remodelled according to hints thrown out by his enchantress; his "white choke," as Car had called it, was now reduced to a most fashionable size, or superseded by a narrow black ribbon; his tailor was called upon to send him clothes as little clerical as could be worn under existing circumstances.

So Mr. Brooke, the somewhat strict incumbent of Everslee, could scarcely believe his eyes when he one day encountered the curate walking with the two Miss Eversfields, now so transformed—his straightcut black cloth coat exchanged for a black velvet article (which he thought looked very much like a shooting-jacket), light grey





trowsers, and well-polished boots, finished off with lavender-coloured gloves.

Geraldine always thought it her unpleasant duty to join the couple in their rambles.

Mr. Brooke stopped the party, and evidently examining the curate from head to foot, said, "How is Thomas Smith, Mr. Hale? I thought he was dying last night when I left the cottage. I told him you would be with him early this morning."

"I-I have not been to him yet, Sir; I was just going."

"I am very sorry to hear this, Mr. Hale,



and



you are now very far out of the direction of his cottage. However, I will go myself, and perhaps you will call at the Rectory this evening; I want to say a few words to you."

Then, looking severely grave, Mr. Brooke bowed to the ladies and went on.

The curate's morning had been taken up in unpacking the box from his tailor, and





trying on the clothes it contained, no doubt admiring himself mightily, in the largest looking-glass his lodging over the Post Office afforded.



He turned fiery red.



"How cross Mr. Brooke looks!" exclaimed Car; "but never mind," she added, "at least you have got out of the bore of visiting the sick man, and you can take a walk with us."

But Mr. Hale looked at Geraldine, and saw upon her countenance disapproval and annoyance. She said, however, unhesitatingly, "Mr. Hale, if you will take my advice, you will follow Mr. Brooke now, and not wait till the evening to explain away, if possible, this neglect of your duty. I know he is very particular in those matters; and," she added deprecatingly, "he had such good hopes that you would be a useful assistant in his arduous labours amongst the poor."

"What a kill-joy you are, Gerry!" ex





claimed Car, petulantly. "Don't heed what she says, Mr. Hale; that sister of mine is a regular prudish old maid; come on, I have set my mind upon a good scrambling walk in the wood."

And the young man, who had stopped and hesitated whether he had not better follow out Geraldine's suggestion, could no longer withstand the alluring looks of entreaty cast upon him, and followed the harebrained damsel; certainly it was sadly to the detriment of his fine clothes, for Car, regardless of thorns and briars, disdaining anything like a beaten path, followed by her two companions, struggled her way through the most entangled parts, and finally issued from the wood into a lane ankle-deep in thick clay mud.

Ah! me! for the polished boots and lavender-coloured gloves! Even the smiles of the beautiful Car scarcely compensated for the melancholy state of the delicatetinted trowsers, so encrusted were the legs by the miry soil.





And then, when the young ladies were gone, and nothing remained but his soiled clothes, and the remembrance of the evening's appointment at the Rectory, the curate's heart sank within him; and as he donned once more his suit of proper clerical cut, Car's charms rather diminished in their perfection when he remembered what a wild-goose chase she had led him, in that (he would have liked to have said) "infernal wood, and still worse lane."

And Mr. Brooke did speak most severely to the curate he was a plain-spoken, though really excellent, kind-hearted, and most zealous man-upon the subject of the total neglect of his duty during the last month; the Rector did not spare him in any one particular. "And your dress, sir," he added, "I really scarcely knew you again; that is not the guise in which you ought to kneel on the brick floor by the bedside of some sick cottager. So I tell you the truth, I don't approve of such things, I like sober,





hard-working men, with hearts entirely devoted to their business, for my curates, not dandies, who are always dawdling by the side of young ladies, neglecting their duty, and living only to amuse themselves."

By this time poor Hale's face had become so red, and he looked so like being on the point of shedding tears, that the Rector's mood began to soften.

"Oh, well!" he continued, "I am sure this will not happen again. Ours is a very responsible calling, my dear young friend; and to take our duties thoughtlessly and carelessly is a sin before God and man. That poor fellow, whom you ought to have visited, was dead when I arrived at his cottage; and his poor wife told me he was looking so anxiously for you, and wishing so earnestly for a prayer, before his spirit took its flight; and Mrs. Smith added, 'My poor husband used to be so comforted by Mr. Hale's words, but he has not been here much of late.""





Mr. Hale's weak but really good nature was now fairly overcome, and the Rector, shaking him by the hand, said kindly :

"We shall work more hand in hand in future, I am sure, Mr. Hale, so let us forget this casual interruption to my hitherto perfect satisfaction in your conduct."

And the poor curate returned to his dismal lodging, and as he passed the interval till bed-time, trying to brush off the pertinaciously adhering mud from the light grey trowsers, and examining with dismay the destructive rents in his black-velvet jacket, he heaved many a sigh whilst moralising over the events of the day. We wonder whether he was cured of his love fit by this transient repentance, caused by the Rector's lecture and his soiled finery.

"Oh, Car, upon my word this will never do!" exclaimed Geraldine, as soon as the curate was fairly out of sight and hearing. "You really shock and disgust me more than I can describe. How abominably you



N





are behaving to that poor young man, without the slightest compunction; making him unfit for his profession, systematically endeavouring to injure him in every way. Mr. Brooke was evidently extremely angry, and, poor young man, no wonder! What a changed character he is from what he was when he first came; and his dress is so unlike what it ought to be, for a poor country curate."

Car burst into such an immoderate fit of laughter, that she was obliged to stop for a few minutes to hold her sides before she could proceed, and then said, during the intervals of her merry ringing peals,—

"Yes, I have done it out-and-out. Oh, Gerry, I thought I must have died when he first appeared before us to-day. Did you ever set eyes on such a guy of a man as he has made of himself ?—and that little wideawake, placed so jauntily on one side of that yellow mop of curls! The fact is, I was describing the other day exactly my





beau-ideal of how I liked a man to dress in the country, and the ridiculous ape has tried to clothe himself as nearly as possible after my description; only one thing he has omitted, and before a week is over that shall be done."

"For mercy's sake," Geraldine exclaimed, "do no more mischief; you ought to recollect all that you promised papa, and-"

But her speech was cut short by Car, who, too full of her plan of mischief to heed a word Geraldine was saying, rattled on.

"I shall have all that bushy thatch cropped short; I shall tell him that it is the proper thing for all young men to wear their hair convict fashion, that is to say, the head made to look as much as possible in the shape of a bowl, and his ears, which are enormous, and always red, exposed to view; I shall hint that those lovely curls must be cut off, and may be retained to be presented as love-tokens; no doubt I shall receive one. You'll see what I shall accom





plish; there will be such a fall of stubble; and, by the bye, I shall never be satisfied till I have him in knickerbockers." And the idea caused the merry laugh again to ring through the air, and the grave sister saw that there was no use in saying any more. No, Car was incorrigible.

Such a different creature, the sober Geraldine, it seemed impossible that she could be the younger sister of such a lawless madcap; her whole nature so totally different, not a thought, a hope, a pursuit, a pleasure, in any way assimilating with Car's.



"She dwelt apart from early youth,

In gentle household ways,

Contented with her mother's smiles,

And with her father's praise.

Hers was the grace of quiet born;

Of fancies mild and pure;

Of making love that could obey,



And strength that could endure.





 Beauty from simplest actions rose,

And harmony from strife,

So kindly did her spirit face



The elements of life.

Hers was the heart that freely gave

The ready smile or sigh;

The cheek that true to feeling flushed,

The bright and upward eye."





We have borrowed a little poetry to spare our readers any further description of the gentle Geraldine Eversfield.





CHAPTER VI.



GERALDINE looked so grave, as she walked on with her thoughtless sister, who, having in a degree exhausted her laughter; turned her attention to her companion, whose distressed face now caught her eye.

"What a fool you are, Gerry!" she exclaimed, stamping her foot; "truly you are, as I said before, a regular kill-joy; you grudge me every little innocent amusement. What harm, pray, can there be in just getting a rise now and then out of that goose of a parson ?-it will do him a great deal of good,shake him up a little, and teach him the ways of the world." Geraldine only shook her head sadly. What





was the use of wasting words upon her giddy companion?

Car now began to be irate, and her mood suddenly changed from loud laughter into loud weeping, as was often her wont, flying from one extreme to the other.

"What a miserable creature I am!" she sobbed. "Everybody and everything always against me. You ought to be glad rather than sorry, you unfeeling wretch! when I can find anything to amuse me a little;—I, so wretched, so forlorn, so disappointed! It is very well for you, who can find pleasure in all this stupid, dirty work, of visiting the poor, and that sort of thing; but it is not my taste; and, oh, what have I not lost? I might have been on the point of marrying a gay, rich, young husband, and so have got out of all this dismality for life."

"Yes, Car, and whose fault was it that you lost him?" Geraldine demanded.

"Whose fault? you cruel, unfeeling crea





ture!-whose fault? Not mine!" and the weeping recommenced with full force.

They now suddenly emerged from the lane upon the high road which led to the gates of Eversley Park. The sisters walked quickly on, looking neither to the right nor left, both too disagreeably engrossed by their own thoughts to heed any sound which might meet their ears; therefore the noise of horses' feet behind them occasioned no interest, and when they did glance carelessly around, they became aware that a large, gay cavalcade of riders, both gentlemen and ladies, were passing them in full speed. Car's tear-stained face had been raised, but only for a moment.

It was sufficient, however, for her quick eye to discover one amongst the party, and that one was Norman Lawless; and, moreover, she knew that he had seen her.

It was but the work of an instant. The next, the equestrians had passed rapidly on, and were, by a turning in the road, soon lost to sight.





"Gerry! Gerry!" Car gasped, as she seized her sister's arm and crept close to her side, "did you see him ?”

"Him! Whom do you mean?" was the answer. "I only saw that there were a great many men and ladies; I distinguished no one in particular."

“But I did, and he saw me, too, and with all these silly tears on ny cheeks. Yes, I saw Norman Lawless, and he looked so handsome. Oh, what a foolish, senseless girl I was to lose such a chance! I wonder where he is staying. Oh, I dare say at the Laurels! Louise told me that the Bosanquets had a gay house full, and I have heard him talk of these friends; and there are some pretty Miss Bosanquets. Oh, Gerry, Gerry, what am I to do? It would have been so much better to have been his, or anybody's wife, rather than waste all my best days in this detestable, horrid hole. Speak, you idiot! cannot you say anything to console me?" and again her tears burst forth.





"No, I cannot, Car; although I am truly sorry for you, and would feel too glad if I had it in my power to serve you in any way; but that is not possible." And she thought, sorrowfully, of the impracticable, hopeless character of her sister. "It is no use advising you to take what I think the only course for you to pursue. "And what is that, pray?"





"Why, to resign yourself to the fate your own misconduct has brought upon you, and to behave more prudently in future."

Poor Geraldine! you might, indeed, have spared your breath and your feelings, for this speech acted upon the excited, ignitible spirit of the girl like gunpowder thrown upon the fire.

She blazed up furiously, and poured forth such a flood of invective upon poor Geraldine, that by the time they had reached home it was the meek sister's tears which were now flowing, whilst those of Car had





dried upon the cheek, so hot and flushed with the various impetuous feelings which filled her mind.



*



And what were Norman Lawless's sensations at so unexpected a crisis?

When he left Westover on that miserable morning, after having discovered the perfidy of his affianced bride, he had returned to London with passions raging in his breast, the more fiercely torturing because they must be for ever untold. He must not be the one to publish his own disgrace. Yes, he had been betrayed, laughed at, scorned; and yet, still more horrible to contemplate, this girl, so false, so perfidious, had pledged herself to marry him; and would have become his wife, caring not for him, indeed, to use her own. words, hating and detesting him, evidently preferring another. Bitter were his denunciations against this creature, so frantically loved; and fierce, vindictive rage burnt





with deadly violence at his heart, to avenge his wrongs on the man who had thus so deeply injured him.

On first arriving in London, his firm resolve was to break down every barrier and insult the matured villain (so he designated the great man), to beard him to his face. What cared he for the results,-for the loss of his commission,- for all the evils which might follow? Like the father of his false love, he felt that he could not live in the same world with the man who had injured him in the most vital part.

On his arrival in London, however, a letter awaited him from his mother. Lady Curraghmore had long been manœuvring to bring about a marriage between one of her daughters and a certain elder son of a Scotch baronet, and had at length succeeded; the parents on both sides having talked the respective parties into consenting to a scheme little palatable to either. The wedding was to take place without delay, and





Norman was requested to obtain leave of absence and repair immediately to Lough Rea, in order to attend the nuptials. Her Ladyship added: "I hope you and Lord Curraghmore will be now satisfied that your cousin Rosalinda is likely to receive from her father's family a sufficient degree of attention and consideration, when I tell you that she is to be our guest for an indefinite period. The Sunderlands have, in a most unscrupulous manner, quartered her upon us. It seems that Lady Elizabeth is in a declining state, requiring, they say, their constant presence and attention at Torquay, and Lady Sunderland adds that this would be a very favourable opportunity for her young friend to visit her father's relations; particularly as no doubt Miss Isabella Lawless would be glad of her cousin's presence at her approaching marriage. marriage. Most free and easy, to say the least of it, I consider this conduct of Lady Sunderland's, and much do I disapprove of the plan alto





gether; and, I am happy to say, neither of your sisters shows any pleasure at the idea of this strange girl's companionship. However, we are of course powerless in the matter. Your father will hear of no refusal; but you, no doubt, who generally side against your mother, will fully approve of this proceeding. The girl is to arrive to-morrow."



This was the substance of Lady Curraghmore's letter, which Norman at first read with the utmost indifference, and went early to bed, the first time in his life, like his perfidious mistress, worn out in spirits and really very wretched.

But what does not sleep achieve for the young? Generally proving their restoration; certainly the best comforter of the sad heart

"Whom fortune's spite assails."



Norman, notwithstanding his misfortunes,





slept soundly; and the next morning felt more composed as he lay ruminating, and, though the wounds of his heart were still bleeding, his powers of reasoning were more clear,- -and when the unfortunate young lover turned his face to the wall, in order to hide from his servant his countenance, upon which might be seen traces of emotion (he would rather have died than expose them to any living creature), his mother's letter recurred to his memory, with a degree of satisfaction her letters seldom afforded.

"Yes, it is as well that I should go to Lough Rea, or I shall be making bad worse. I must insult that arch-fiend, should I meet him, and then the whole story will be out. Yes, I shall be as a worm under his foot. I shall be crushed; exposed to the ridicule of all London; and she, that false one! She- " and he ground his teeth. "Yes, there I should have my revenge on her, as far as the





exposé could blast her character for ever; but" and he groaned. "No; there is nothing for me but to go at once to Lough Rea, and I shall really be glad to see that good-natured little Rosalinda again."





CHAPTER VII.



LINDA entered into the plan of visiting her relations with very mixed feelings.

The dear Highlands where she had spent such a happy time, where she had first seen Norman, how delightful to be there again, and in that grand old house, amidst those delicious mountains, and to meet Norman, and to be so kindly greeted by her uncle; but then Lady Curraghmore, the very idea sent a frisson all over her frame; and her cousins, Margaret and Isabella, those two icicles, who never seemed to thaw towards her. However, there was no help for it, she must go; and, to say the truth, she did feel very dull, and longed for change of any



sort.





The short glimpses of the world during the last few months, had rather unsettled the little girl-they had proved so very pleasant to her taste, and now she was left almost entirely to her own resources-the governess even gone, and Lord and Lady Sunderland completely occupied with the invalid.

Lord Sinclair gone off, as usual, abroad.

Oh! it was very dismal; any change would be a relief: and Norman had told her never to mind his mother's disagreeable ways. Then the wedding, that would be something so new and amusing.

It did seem rather extraordinary that any one should wish to make Isabella a companion for life-such a dull, cold, uninteresting girl; however, she concluded it was probably her own ignorance and bad taste which had made her view her cousin thus ungraciously.

Linda was not cognisant of all the secrets of the prison-house.





Isabella had no choice in the arrangement of her marriage; her consent had never even been asked. Lady Curraghmore had informed her daughter that her hand had been demanded in marriage by Daniel Craigie, and that she had accepted the offer.

It was a most eligible match, fortune, position, et cetera, et cetera.

What matter was it that Isabella turned ashy pale when she received the communication; the wily mother knew well all the workings of her daughter's mind, and this knowledge had caused her to fix upon the youngest to be the bride of the raw young Craigie, who, just come of age, thought it no fun to be so soon tied for life to an ugly, red-haired, cross-looking girl-so he designated his future bride.

Lady Craigie was a second Lady Curraghmore in her family; supreme in all ways, and, moreover, the most congenial and intimate friend that lady possessed; they were on all points kindred souls.





Isabella's ample dower and the "honourable" affixed to her name, were quite sufficient qualifications to insure Lady Craigie's consent and co-operation for the furtherance of the plan, and she continued to talk over her son, who had never yet dared to gainsay his mother's word. He only ventured to remark: "Well, if I am to have one of them, why not let it be Margaret? —she is the best looking of the two.”

But Lady Curraghmore had her reasons for the lot falling on Isabella. She was perfectly aware that, with all her iron rule, she had not been able to avert the shafts of Cupid's bow, and that Isabella was deeply smitten with the good-looking minister who inhabited the Manse of Lough Rea; so, as prevention is better than cure, she took instant steps to that effect.

She would not lower her dignity by allowing any one for a moment to imagine that she could believe such a thing possible; no, not even the culprit herself. So





the unfortunate girl was spared at least her mother's bitter reproofs; but she had to succumb to the doom which she perfectly knew was inevitable.

Margaret's only words of consolation. were, "I am very sorry, Isabella, but there is no help for you, nor for me, when my time comes. Daniel Craigie is raw and uncouth; however, he is young, and may improve, and he's rich, and that, I suppose, we ought to think enough for this world's happiness; at least, we have been educated in that belief. Upon my word, considering all things, you are fortunate in not having to marry a much more revolting man. I wonder what rich horror will be picked out for me, for no daughter of our mother will ever wed the man of her choice."

Under these circumstances it is not surprising that Linda thought that a wedding was no such very pleasant prospect to the parties concerned.

Lady Sunderland had taken care that she





should be provided with a pretty present for the fiancée, but it was received with cold indifference, and very feeble thanks.

"I hope you like my little offering, Isabella?" Linda asked, with a mortified



look.



“Oh, yes, I do; butI do; but oh, Linda!" And, to Linda's dismay, her seemingly impassible cousin burst into a fit of weeping.



Lady Curraghmore received Linda with more civility than she had expected. In her own Highland home, the rights of hospitality were, she considered, a sort of moral duty, which might be dispensed with in the English mansion in Grosvenor Square; and at this moment her Ladyship's heart was full of exultation at having secured such an eligible match for one of her unattractive daughters.

Lord Curraghmore, as usual, was all warmth and affection; and the prospect of Norman's arrival gave a bright colouring





to all around. Linda was sorry to see Isabella so low-spirited; but Margaret said it was only natural she should grieve at the idea of leaving home. Linda thought that to quit such a home of frigidity could not elicit any very acute sensations of regret; however, it was impossible to judge of other people's feelings, and it was a beautiful home, most certainly, that she was about to quit. Those who lived in foreign regions, her foreign governess used to tell her, were often afflicted with a "maladie du pays;" perhaps this sickness had already assailed her. So she reflected, as she looked forth upon the landscape around the mountain which based the mansion,-the crowning rocks fantastically heaped like an upraised cross; the pine forest, in the wild country beyond, looking on moonlight nights like a battle-field of gigantic skeletons, all the romance of her nature was called forth, and she then scarcely wondered at Isabella's reluctance to the





thoughts of leaving her wild mountain home.

And the next day Norman was to arrive, and she should be with him again in that wonderful old Hall, and by the beautiful river-side. Yes; she had already been there, had lived over in recollection those moments-engraved with such brilliant colours upon her mind, her heart—when she had first looked upon his face that face so fondly loved!

She saw the carriage, which was to convey him from a far-off railway station, whirl



away.



What would she have given to have gone with it to meet him, and how many hours would elapse before he could arrive!

A weary day it would, indeed, prove; and so it was to Linda, as with others within those walls.

The next morning was fixed for the wedding. The family, with the exception of Lord Curraghmore and his son, were





Presbyterians; the ceremony would, therefore, take place in the house-the wonderful old hall, the pride of so many succeeding ages, the place appointed for its celebration.

Guests were arriving at all hours of the day; and Linda's heart leaped high at every sound of the pealing hall-bell, but no Norman made his appearance.

The whole family of Craigies had arrived: father, mother, and four sisters, who, with Linda and Margaret, were to act as bridesmaids. Sir Daniel was a diminutive, infirm old man, not certainly the better half of his wife, who was enormous in dimensions, both as to height and stoutness,most formidable to look at, indeed, Linda thought, and no wonder; Isabella dreaded her as a second mother, one already of such a kind, so far too much, in her opinion. The sisters were more or less commonplace, and evidently looked upon her with no cordiality. Of course, they had been





duly warned against forming any intimacy with the Italian Opera singer's daughter.

But little cared Linda; her mind was far too engrossed by her own thoughts and anticipations to heed aught else; and, when dinner-time arrived, and she believed no Norman had come, her cheeks had flushed to the deepest red, and her eyes were brilliant from excitement, rendering the usually pale girl strikingly handsome. She took her seat, dreamy and abstracted,—a feeling of bitter disappointment at her heart.

The numerous guests were all seated, she as usual by Lord Curraghmore's side, and the dinner had some time commenced, when she asked,

"For whom are you keeping that seat, uncle ?".

It was the one on the other side of him. "For whom, my pretty niece? Why, for the boy who is just come to take it," was the answer, as Norman appeared, and was beckoned by his father to the empty chair.





Linda could have clapped her hands with joy; and Norman smiled kindly at the little cousin, who looked so glad to see him. But Linda's pleasure soon subsided into anxiety.

"How changed he looks," she thought; "so pale and thin, and, I should say, so sad. Yes; what can ail him?" she continued to muse. "Can he be ill?" and she began furtively to examine his countenance, her own losing its beaming look whilst she traced symptoms of suffering on her cousin's face.

But Norman looked gently, affectionately upon the girl-more so than he had ever done before. His heart was sore from the treachery of one whom he had so passionately loved; it was soothing to feel those tender glances of his little cousin, now in her ripening womanhood so pretty and attractive.

"Dear little creature!" he thought; "I love her as I ought to have loved my sisters."





And after dinner he took his place by her side; and, though he was silent and abstracted, still it seemed to be a comfort to him to sit near her in the embrasure of the deep oriel window in the great saloon, into which a glorious moon poured the full splendour of its rays.

"Do you remember our midnight drive to the Lodge, Norman?"

"Perfectly, little cousin; and I remember Vaga Luna.'"

"How happy I was that night!" Linda sighed.

"Yes, Linda; happiness flies away as soon as we become men and women -have you not found that to be the case?"

"I am very happy at this moment," she answered artlessly. "It is so delightful to find ourselves with those we love; and, Norman, no sister could love you better than I do."

And, as the moon's rays fell upon the ardent, loving face, Norman felt that had





he been heart-free he could have loved her even better than a sister; but now his heart had done for ever with woman-love, and the image of that false one rose up before his imagination with all the bewitching charms which had undone him yes, and that is not too strong a term to use it had undone him.

Norman Lawless's nature was one of extremes; his was an ill-regulated mind, born with impetuous passions; and what advantages had he derived from education, precept, or example? The young man was not naturally wholly bad, but the few scattered germs of good, which he might have claimed as a birth-right, had been choked and smothered by the selfish indomitable feelings which unlimited indulgence had crowded into his heart. Norman's passionate feeling towards Car Eversfield was indeed vitally injuring him, casting a portentous dark shadow over his existence, which boded nought but misery,





worthless as he knew her to be, his own ears having heard, his own eyes having beheld her perfidy. Still. yes, still the passion clung to his senses, and he even now frantically adored her, and felt that with all her sins, even knowing her to be heartless, perfidious, every thing that is bad, still still, the Circe's image clung to his fancy, held him fast; and fool, abject wretch as he was, even now he could lie at her feet, take her in his arms, and—and forgive her.

And, from these ideas he would recoil, even with horror, with disgust at himself. Was he indeed sunk so low as to be able for a moment still to entertain the idea of taking to his bosom, yes, even as his wife such a girl as Car Eversfield?

But so it was. "Madness! madness!" he thought, as he struck his forehead, and gnashed his teeth, at this image of his ignoble self.

No wonder the young man looked the





ghastly spectre of his former self; and as he sat there in the soft moonlight by the side of his loving little cousin, her childlike purity and unselfish affection for him, unworthy as he was, cast, nevertheless, a kind of soothing influence around, and he felt that there was indeed a strange difference between the innocence, the guileless simplicity of a well-nurtured girl, compared with the feverish excitement, the restless presence, of a world-taught, world-initiated young lady.

All the effect, however, this had upon Norman was to render his feelings for the moment gentler; but his depressed countenance struck such a chill on Linda's heart, that, creeping close to him, she said

"Norman, dear Norman, what is the matter?"

He raised his eyes upon the eager inquiring face.

"Oh! Linda, there is much the matter. I am thoroughly wretched; there is no hope





left for me in this world. Oh! I wish that I were dead!"

Linda trembled with affright.

"Oh! Norman, Norman, would that I could comfort you!" she exclaimed; "I would give my last drop of blood to serve you."

"I really think you would, good little cousin," he said, taking her hand affectionately, "but you nor any one else can help me; I am past help."

"Dear Norman, say not such dreadful words. You unhappy, you past help! impossible I could not have imagined that sorrow could have dared to approach you."

"Do you think, Linda, that I am an excepted one from the worst of evils to endure, a wounded spirit, a heart torn by cruelty and treachery? Oh! little cousin, could you look into my heart, you would find it lacerated, bleeding, and the hand which inflicted the deadly wound is one I have so fondly loved."





And Norman leant his elbow upon the window-sill, and with his hand covered his face. Linda sat in silence by his side, her hands clasped upon her knees, her eyes uplifted, staring with a vacant gaze upon the bright orb which was lighting up that oriel window.

And what were the thoughts of that innocent maiden? Norman had declared that he loved another; did this revelation cause her heart to beat with jealous pangs, for she too loved him fondly, fervently? No, strange to say, as yet her love was quite unselfish. This revelation only touched her as relating to him, to his present wretchedness, and that was quite enough to enlist her sympathy; she must love him always, come what may, but to avert unhappiness from him was at this moment all she cared for-she could not bear to see that bright beloved cousin utterly cast down. Who was the wretch who had thus wrecked his happiness?— and





her heart swelled high with anger-Could it be that radiant creature she had seen in the Brookwood race-stand?

Her bright image had often haunted Linda's mind, that "beautiful fiend," as Norman had called her, and she remembered well how pale he looked, and how his countenance had changed, whilst in her presence.

Linda's Italian blood boiled tumultuously in her veins, her heart beat wildly.

"Norman, she is unworthy of you. She is a beautiful fiend," she whispered in his



ear.



The young man started.

"What do you know of her, Linda?" he asked hastily, fixing his bloodshot eyes upon the girl, who had risen, and was standing



before him.





"You told me she was a beautiful fiend,' that girl at Brookwood. Oh! Norman, shake off her influence; never mind, the wound is painful, but that will heal dear





Norman; but for Heaven's sake, never think of her again. She is a fiend. I saw that at once, for though she is beautiful, she is bad. I watched her countenance whilst she was talking to that fierce-looking man, and oh! it made me shudder.”

"Yes, Linda, it is all too true, and yet she has destroyed me, body and soul, has made me

"Oh! and here you have been hiding, you naughty little darling; we have been hunting for you in every direction; and dancing going forward in the big hall, and all the young men looking for you; come along, and you too, Norman, you used to be a capital hand at a reel; come, and let's have one," and Lord Curraghmore snapped his fingers in anticipation."

"Not I," groaned Norman; "don't you see I am ill, sir?"

"Ill, my boy; what ails you? you certainly do look seedy, Norman: you are





knocked up, I suppose, by that deuced long journey."

“Yes, and I am only fit for bed. So good night, Linda," and without further delay Norman departed, but not to bed. For hours he wandered amidst the wild scenery which surrounded the place, ascending rocks and mountains, and when wearied by the toilsome ascent, throwing himself exhausted upon the perfumed turf. How pale was his face, his eyes turning so restlessly, as there he lay, the moon floating out upon the deep blue heavens, and pouring her silver light full upon the unhappy young man.





CHAPTER VIII.



It seemed as if Lady Curraghmore was far too much engrossed by the requirements of the present important business to heed the disturbed looks of her son. But it was not



So.



She noted all; had seen for some time that something was going amiss with Norman - indeed her lynx-eyed curiosity with regard to his proceedings never slumbered nor slept. She was perfectly aware that he had been paying marked attention to Miss Eversfield-that notorious flirt, a marriage with whom she would indeed have been the very last to have sanctioned. But she well knew the spirit she had to compete with, and that a word from her might set





fire to a train devastating indeed in its nature. No, she must be silent, and wait.

The girl had jilted so many, was so fickle and false, that Norman would probably share the fate of those she had already spurned, and with stern anxiety filling her mind, the iron-hearted woman confided the secret care to no one. And now she saw her son the pale image of despair, and rejoiced. "Yes, it is all right, and my prudent silence is rewarded. The girl has played him her usual trick, and turned him off."

Little heeded the mother that the young man was heart-stricken, that he suffered agonies of mind. So much the better, it would be a salutary lesson. No kind soothing look or word was vouchsafed to the miserable son. Lady Curraghmore bustled about amongst her numerous guests with a lightened spirit, gloating over her son's discomfiture. Not that she did not love him to the very extent of her unloving





nature; but not one spark of sympathy could be elicited from her hardest of hearts. Not even did she remark upon the haggard looks of this favourite child, when he at length made his appearance the next day, looking so ill as to excite general notice.



The marriage was to be celebrated as quietly as possible, not in the style of a true Highland wedding. Lady Curraghmore was not of a nature to participate in scenes of joyous hilarity. All must be done en règle, and with grave propriety, as far as the interior of the house of Lough Rea was concerned.

Money she was quite content to give, to entertain the peasantry and the dependants on the estate bonfires might blaze, and any amount of whisky be drunk, so that nothing uproarious took place within the precincts of her immediate domain; all things must be conducted there with solemn decorum.





A celebrated popular preacher was invited from Edinburgh to perform the usual ceremony of their church. The poor young minister of the Lough Rea manse was, however, invited to assist, but some fortunate means of escape occurred, either real or imaginary, to necessitate his absence at that moment; and Lady Curraghmore gloried in secret over her well-devised plans and prudent concealment of all knowledge of her daughter's foolish fancy.

The hall was a real specimen of one belonging to an old Highland mansion, which as yet had escaped the innovation of modern improvement, and it was an imposing sight when prepared for the marriage solemnity.

On one side it was decorated with arms of the olden time, arranged in many fantastic shapes; ponderous battle-axes and huge claymores, belonging to defunct chiefs of the families, now rusted from disuse; and suits of armour of many an ancestor,





some of whom had died in the defence of their country.

The other sides of the hall were hung with red deer hides, above which branching antlers were reared on heads of deer, which, in every attitude of life, gazed with royal eyes upon every visitor. All this looked grimly picturesque, but little assimilating with the modern-looking company then assembled.

Raised seats had been placed at one end for the domestics and the few retainers who were honoured by an invitation to be present upon the occasion; the occasion; the other guests being provided with seats surrounding the spot fixed upon for the clergyman to pronounce his blessing upon the bridal pair.

To the English eye, the Presbyterian marriage ceremony is imposing from its primitive simplicity.

The clergyman addressed the bride with fatherly earnestness, setting before her the duties of the holy state; and then turned





to the bridegroom, and exhorted him to love and cherish his wife. He next joined their hands, and announced them to be now, with his blessing and their own consent, a married pair.

And the whole was finished by his pouring forth a prayer in low, pleading tones, his eloquence and feeling impressing every listener.





And Isabella, how did she enact the rôle of bride? There certainly must be something very transforming, for the moment, in the position of a bride issuing forth from her chamber-a glamour cast over every eye-for when was there a bride who did not look (if not lovely) at least somewhat attractive on her wedding-day, and in her wedding dress? Therefore, when Isabella appeared, leaning on her father's arm, followed by her troop of bridesmaids, -a splendid veil thrown over her magnificent dress of the richest material, subduing the effect of her red





hair and red eyes,-she appeared, thus indistinctly seen, as a bride ought to look.

And the bridegroom?-but he always plays second best on those occasions, and comes in for little share of the observation so largely bestowed on the bride and her attire. Young Craigie appeared more awkward and shy than usual, and certainly afforded a strong contrast to Norman Lawless, who was ordered by Lady Curraghmore to stand by his side as "best man" to his future brother-in-law.

"How handsome and aristocratic he looks," Linda thought, as her eyes fixed themselves upon her cousin; "but, oh, how pale, how wretched! What can be done to make him happier?"



What, indeed!



The wedding was over; the bride and bridegroom gone; and those remaining left with that dull feeling over every mind which, as a matter of course, generally succeeds such an event. The rest of the





day passed heavily. Norman did not again appear till dinner was on the table, and then took his place more abstracted than ever, scarcely even heeding Linda, who watched his every turn of countenance; and after dinner he did not again join her in the oriel window, although the moon was shining into it as brightly as the night before.

There was dancing; and Linda was sought eagerly by all the young men present, and she dared not refuse to accept engagements for every dance. How she would have enjoyed this her first ball, had it not been for her anxiety for Norman!

The little girl was much admired; and more than one Scotch laird went away with anything but a whole heart that night.



Their



An English girl seldom fails to be appreciated in the North country. quiet, lady-like, refined manners, their different style of beauty, colouring, and





tout ensemble in general, is usually taking to a Scotchman,-particularly if with these adjuncts there appears a blending of goodhumour and sportive mirth in their bearing.

Norman scarcely made his appearance in the room after having opened the ball with the eldest Miss Craigie, which he had been persuaded to do by Lady Curraghmore. He had declared that he was ill, and could not dance; and Linda saw him, as she passed through the rooms with her partners, always in the same place, leaning out of one of the windows in the oriel recess, seeming in rapt contemplation of the glorious harvest moon.

But once, quite late, he sauntered into the ball-room; and the musicians striking up a waltz, he suddenly turned to Linda, who at that moment was unoccupied, and asked her to take a turn with him.

"Oh! Norman, I should like it so much, but I have scarcely ever waltzed; they never allowed me to learn to waltz; but I





think I can manage it, if you will excuse my awkwardness."

And the next moment they were flying round; Linda becoming more and more intoxicated by the exquisite sensation of enjoyment, known only to those who have revelled in the delight, which, whilst it lasts, appears certainly to be most powerful, particularly when partaken with a partner perfect in his, or her, fitness for the dance.

"Oh, how delicious, Norman !" gasped Linda, as, breathless and panting at last, he led her to the oriel window, "I should like to waltz for ever."

Norman sighed deeply.

"Yes, it is a rapturous dance, Linda, I have often found it so; but said you



you



had never waltzed before; you are perfect as a partner."

"Oh! am I, Norman? I am so glad you think so; I never learnt it from Madame D, but the Grevilles, who live near





Belmont, with whom I sometimes spend the day, they taught me."

"Linda, I am going to-morrow!" Norman said abruptly.

"To-morrow! oh pray, pray don't say so, Norman," Linda cried in consternation. "We have not had one walk,-I was looking forward to so many; we have not been down to the river, that dear, dear river, where I first saw you, Norman, that happy day."

Norman turned with rather a startled look upon the face of Linda, and was silent for a while. For the first time a surmise had risen in his mind, and as he continued to gaze upon that countenance, so speaking always, and now indicating what he had never before thought of observing most unmistakable expression of passionate love,





a



"Can the girl love me?" he thought. "I hope not," he continued to muse, "it would indeed be a misfortune if the child had thrown her heart away upon one who never





could return her love,-yes, love, which I see would be no slight feeling in her passionate nature."

But now he saw that Linda was weeping. "Oh! don't go, Norman to-morrow; just stay one day to make me happy."

"I cannot, Linda, but I will come again very soon. For Heaven's sake don't weep; it makes me more than ever wretched to see tears from your innocent eyes, dear little



cousin."



And with really affectionate brotherly kindness, and no vestige of any other feeling, he put his arm round her waist, and, drawing her towards him, kissed her.

"I will come again, and then you will be my comforter, and assist to drive away this dreadful sorrow, which now so abjectly drags me to the earth. You will be a real sister to me, Linda, will you not?"

"Yes, I will, Norman," she sobbed forth, "I would do anything for you-lay down my life, if it would benefit you."





Oh, poor Linda! little could you imagine what direful troubles those words, poured forth from your loving heart, would bring upon you!

And thus they parted. The guests were all departing, and Linda flew unobserved to the solitude of her own room, there to weep unheeded.





CHAPTER IX.



CAR returned home in a most perturbed state of mind. The glimpse she had caught of Norman Lawless had acted as a shock to her system, reviving in her mind all the old memories of her hitherto undisturbed life of careless pleasure, and of never ceasing adulation.

The present vapid existence had made her remember with keen regret her injured lover's ardent attentions. Indeed, now that she had by her bad conduct forfeited his regard, the fervour of his manly love, his real devotion, had often and often caused her to execrate her own folly in having thus betrayed and lost him.

She could shed tears of rage over her own





misdemeanours, which had thus ruined her pleasant prospects, and she could, in her present mood, even accuse Lord Glendinnon, in no measured terms, as the cause of her present unhappiness. And now she had seen her ardent lover again, the girl was certainly in a pitiable state of repentant regret.

How could she live and bear this life of slow torture,this existence of horrible dulness? Sir Hector was in London, therefore the family kept school-room hours, Lady Julia still confined, for the most part of the day, to her dressing-room.

Oh! those meals,-those meals! how she hated them! A row of children headed by an acid-looking governess, pinafores and rice-puddings the order of the day. Car looked indeed a creature completely out of its element amongst them; and as this afternoon she took her seat at tea, her red eyes and woe-begone look, occasionally raised into petulant impatience, as a request was





made by one of the young ones to " pass the bread and butter," savoured little of the former joyous and sprightly bearing of the vivacious Caroline.

And then she had to go and sit in Lady Julia's dressing-room-that was worse than all to-night.

"What have I to say to Mamma this evening? Not one word that she would like to hear. If I began by my little fun with that stupid Hale, she would be shocked, and if I told her I had seen Captain Lawless, I should probably either hear her groan, thinking of my sins in that quarter, or she would commence a sermon, which would soon be interrupted by her tears. Poor

Mamma is too nervous to be able to lecture me now-a-days. Heigho! heigho! Yes, I know that I am a very troublesome wretch, but what can I do? It is my nature, and the fact is I am not fit to live with my family; I am of a totally different species from any of them, and I often think I must





have been changed at my birth.



Oh! if I



married



had but behaved myself, and Norman Lawless, it would have been a blessing for all parties; for Heaven knows what will become of me, and what I may not do if-if-only the temptation ever comes before me."

Caroline went, as usual, into her mother's sitting-room, to pass the rest of the tedious evening, Geraldine already there, seated close to the sofa, with a book in her hand, reading to Lady Julia. Car took her seat by the window, and was soon lost in the deepest reverie; and as she mused, her countenance might be seen by degrees to clear, the pale cheeks to resume their brightness, and smiles to play round her mouth.

"Yes," she thought, "at any rate I'll try."

The next day was bright and fine.

"Is Mamma going to drive this afternoon?" Car asked of her sister.





"Yes, she says she thinks she will leave her cards upon the Bosanquets, for they have been very civil, in sending very often to inquire after her."

"Are you going with her?"

"No; Mamma thought of taking Nelson, and Charlie as he has not been well."

"What a bore it is that I am not to ride when Papa is away! What next, I wonder? Upon my word the manner in which I am treated is quite enough to drive me to some act of desperation."

"Oh! Car," was Geraldine's shocked



answer.





Yes, I mean what I say; I can bear this no longer, and I shall tell Papa so when he returns. I'm kept up here like a prisoner or a lunatic, watched day and night; but I'm determined to ride to-day, if it is only on one of the children's ponies."

"Oh! that of course you can do, if you keep to the park and woods; but, Car, with Captain Lawless in the neighbourhood, you





surely would not wish to run the risk of meeting him."

"Gerry, excuse my answering; you know my opinion of you,-worthy, but wholly lacking sense, at least according to my meaning of the word."

That afternoon she sallied forth upon one of the little ponies, accompanied by small brother. What was her intent or purpose, we cannot exactly say. One reason certainly was to escape meeting Mr. Hale. No, she had "other fish to fry,” and had given him up for ever and for aye.

They galloped about the park for some short time, and then disappeared into the wood.

"Oh! Car, this is a stupid way to go," the boy began, "we can't gallop here."

"No; but, Georgie, they won't let me go out of the grounds; they think me a naughty girl, and not fit to go alone."

The boy laughed, but did not contradict the assertion, and said,





"Yes, I dare say you are naughty, Car; indeed I know you are, but

"But what? you impertinent little atom!" The boy added, his eyes twinkling with fun, "You ride like a good un, and people say that you are a right-down handsome girl, and that's what you like best, isn't it, Car?"

Car did not know whether to like it or not, and turned rather red; however, she laughed, and said,

"And what else do they say about me, monkey?"

"Oh! they say you are the fastest party going, and I heard all the stablemen declare, when you—





"Oh! never mind what the stablemen say," Car interrupted impatiently, giving the pony a sharp stroke with her whip, and, notwithstanding the narrow path, urging it into a brisk trot, which soon brought them out of the wood upon the borders of a



common.





"Now we'll have a scamper, Car," the boy exclaimed, and away they went at the full speed of the two little steeds; all four, including the ponies, enjoying to the utmost the fresh air and the liberty of the



moment.



Farther, and farther they flew, till suddenly Car pulled up, for she found they were coming close upon an encampment of gipsies, and if they did not slacken their pace, they might possibly annihilate some of the numerous brats of all ages, who were sprawling on the turf, close to the tents.

They had scarcely turned their ponies' heads in another direction, when they were accosted by a gipsy woman, who had run after them, and was asking Car to allow her to tell her fortune.

"Yes, pretty lady, stop a bit and let me tell you all about him, the pretty gentleman who is not far off."

"What do you mean?" Car quickly replied, reining in her pony.





"Oh! just let me see the palm of that lilywhite hand, and let me cross it with a bit of silver, and I'll tell you whether he be dark or fair"

"But I have no money with me," Car said.

"I have," said Georgie, "Mamma gave me a shilling this morning. I'll lend it to you, Car, if you will promise faithfully to pay me back the moment we get home; it will be rather fun to hear what the woman will say."

And producing the shilling from the recesses of a pocket filled with a heterogeneous collection of articles, he presented it to the gipsy, who immediately proceeded to read the lines in the young lady's hand.

"Oh! but it is not all right here," exclaimed the sibyl, after a grave examination of the palm; "these lines are strangely crossed," and she looked up with a scrutinising gaze into Car's face, which was beaming





with curiosity and interest. "Yes, pretty lady, those bright eyes were born to make many a heart bleed; and the pretty gentleman with the fair skin and blue eyes, he who loves your beautiful face so dearly,— haven't you given him many a troublous hour?"

Car of course laughed, and there was an affirmative in that silvery sound, which assisted the gipsy in her task.

"Oh! beware of the other one; there's mischief in his eye, lady. I can see danger in that crooked line, and sorrow too, and sighing, such as you have never yet known. Shun him, pretty one, and give your heart to your true love,-the winsome lad with the bright locks and the sad countenance." Gipsies are shrewd beyond our imagina



tion.



Accustomed to read the countenances of those who allow themselves to be inveigled into listening to their fictitious knowledge, they become skilful physiognomists, and their crafty cleverness can elicit





information out of every expression of a face submitting to the ordeal of their pretended clairvoyance.

This gipsy woman was an adept in her art, and years had gained for her experience. She had also a clue to go by, having only a few minutes before waylaid Norman Lawless, who had been taking a solitary saunter, a gun in his hand as an excuse, on the common which skirted the estate of "The Laurels." The gipsy woman had insisted upon telling his fortune, and soon seeing, by the unsettled look of the young man, that his mind was anything but at ease, forthwith arranged a story which, with its random "hits," touched many of the wounds of his heart.



con



"Yes, pretty lady," the woman tinued, as she looked first at the soft palm, and then into the face of the girl, and noted the expression of her eyes and of her rosy mouth, "you must beware of the pitfalls in your path, and if you do





not lay hold of a strong arm soon to guard your steps, these crooked lines show plainly that an enemy will spring up. Oh! never heed, beautiful lady, if there is one who has a soft tongue and a hawk's eye, he's dangerous anyhow, sweet one! It is not the great folks of this earth who are the truest of

lovers; you may have riches and power, but what are they compared to a true young heart, which beats so wildly for you?"

Car's bright look had rather changed whilst she listened to the woman's words. She felt rather nervous at the idea of what she might tell next; so saying, "That will do, good woman; I don't want to hear any more," she touched her pony with the whip and cantered off, looking graver than was her wont, for she was thinking how true was all the woman had said, and how she longed just once more to meet Norman Lawless, and try, at any rate, if she could





Do what? we wonder.

Again ensnare the affections of the young

man by her witchery.

And the opportunity soon occurred.





CHAPTER X.



NORMAN LAWLESS, when he had so abruptly left Lough Rea, returned at once to London, and pleading ill health, to which his haggard looks gave instant credence, obtained leave to absent himself from his regiment for a fortnight. Reckless as to where he went, he was persuaded by a man of his acquaintance to accompany him to Paris, and when there, with a kind of savage desperation, he plunged at once into every kind of dissipation, incentives to which were so easily found in that city of pleasure and refinement in iniquity. What cared he how he spent the time, so for the moment his senses were drowned in oblivion of his galling wound,—that wound





still so agonising, which even the known perfidy of her who had inflicted it would not heal.

No, though he knew that Car Eversfield was wholly unworthy, that she cared not for him,-nay even preferred another,— the infatuated man still loved to distraction, to the prostration of his very soul.

After a fortnight's career of dissipation, frightful to contemplate, Norman returned to his regiment so little improved in looks by his trip, indeed looking so frightfully ill, that it was with no surprise his brother officers heard he was confined to Grosvenor Square, where he generally took up his quarters, with a severe nervous attack, almost amounting to fever.

He was peremptory in his orders that his family should not be apprised of his illness; it would only make him worse, if his mother came to him. Asheton was quite sufficient as a nurse; and this kind friend was unremitting in his attentions to his friend, whom,





though unsuited to him in every way, he still for old acquaintance sake regarded. Captain Asheton was perfectly aware of the state of Norman Lawless's mind with regard to Car Eversfield; indeed the story had been confided to him by the injured man, and Asheton knew well that nothing he could say or do would be of any use,time and circumstances would alone change the strong bias of this impetuous young man's mind; the image of the worthless, perfidious Car was still too vividly stamped upon his mind, and even weeks of illness had not weakened the fire which burnt so fiercely in his heart.

His thoughtful, serious friend looked forward with painful anticipations to the future career of this self-willed young man, ever so ungovernable in all his impulses.

Soon after Lawless had issued from his sick room, young Bosanquet, a brother officer, invited him to join a shooting party





at The Laurels, and Norman, to the surprise of Asheton, at once accepted it.

Did he know its vicinity to Everslee? And he had again seen Car, and how? Not as the bright, blooming, joyous enchantress of old, but with cheeks bedewed by tears-yes, Car weeping!

Merciful powers, what a revulsion the sight caused in his whole system! He could have leaped from his horse, and taken her that moment to his heart, knelt to her, implored her only to smile once more. Car in tears, his beautiful, his adored! All her sins were at once forgotten-nothing remained save the remembrance of those indeed most "idle tears.'

But he had to ride on, and what was worse, to listen to the chatter of one of the Miss Bosanquets, by whose side he was riding.

"Oh! did you see the Miss Eversfields, Captain Lawless?" she exclaimed; "the one with the small hat, you know, is, my





brother says, the fastest girl in London,— such a flirt and such a jilt." And then the young lady stopped suddenly, for it glanced across her mind that she had heard something about an affair between her and Captain Lawless.

He answered not a word, but with feelings of smothered rage, heard many a remark amongst the riding party directed towards this girl, to whom, to his shame, the infatuated young man still was bound with fetters he had not the power to shake off. He had no definite idea what he should do, but his abstracted looks, his haggard countenance that evening, made young Bosanquet fear the nervous attack was about to return; and the next morning his appearance had not improved, so that it created no surprise when he declined joining the large shooting party in the coverts, saying that he would stroll alone with his gun, as there were, he knew, some coveys of birds in a particular field; he did not





feel up to a very long day's shooting. And having got rid of the rest of the party, with a feeling of relief he hastily turned his steps onwards-in what direction he cared not, but soon found himself upon the picturesque common adjacent to The Laurels and to Everslee.

It was a delicious autumn day, the perfumed turf emitting the odours of its wild flowers. All nature seemed to smile, mocking with its brightness the distempered mind of Norman Lawless, who, after, with impatient steps, having for some time traversed the moor, at length threw himself wearily down upon the soft green earth, casting his gun on one side, whilst he gave himself up to his distorted imaginings.

And there he was startled by the voice of the same gipsy woman who afterwards accosted Car, the weird sibyl, who had stealthily been watching his movements, and thereby had formed her own conclusions upon his state of mind.





Nothing, she thought, but crossed love could make one like him so impatiently wretched, so handsome, and so grandlooking, it must be that he had everything his own way, but one perhaps. Oh! that one thing which money and power will not always purchase,-the slippery heart of a young maiden!



But



The gipsy began by accosting him in her usual way, and an impatient "Go away" was the first notice she received. the woman was not so easily repulsed; she went on, saying-"Doesn't the pretty gentleman wish to hear a word of his lady-love? the beautiful lady who pretends sometimes to look coldly at him, but who is only making believe all the time."

Norman started and looked round at the keen face of the speaker, and then, raising himself upon his elbow, again said, but less harshly, "Did I not tell you to go away?"

"I will go away after I have had a look at your bonny white hand, and have crossed





it with a bit of silver, and put some heart into you. Pretty gentleman, come," she continued, seeing that Lawless looked irresolute; "I will tell you beforehand the colour of her eyes; yes, those beautiful eyes, so dark and so bright, which shine like stars in the deep blue sky."

Norman's fingers were now in his waistcoat pocket, and looking half-ashamed, he produced half-a-crown, and gave it to the gipsy, who began immediately in grave earnest to perform her task.

These people have a theory of their own to go by, and as she looked at the hand held in hers, and then turned her eyes on the agitated face of the young man, who, in his present morbid state, was with wild distended eyes watching her, as if his fate depended upon her words, the woman thought, "Well, I had better not say what I see here, or this handsome young chap will be mayhap shooting that gun either at me, or at his own self. Oh! lawk, what mischief I could tell of





So she concocted her tale, in as soothing a manner as she could, saying "Faint heart never won fair lady," and that many things that looked black turned out all right; she told him to beware of a dark man, and not to let the grass grow under his feet, that there was one who had shed many a tear for him, that what was to be done had better be done quickly, for there was "many a slip between the cup and the lip," and so forth.

Norman Lawless, disgusted with himself for even listening for one moment to all the nonsense she was talking, still felt happier when the woman had left him, after having elicited another half-crown from the waistcoat pocket. "Poor young fellow," she mused as she went her way, pleased with her successful day's work, "if there's not trouble and confusion coming on in that quarter, I know little of my trade; but I had not the heart to tell him so, and I have an inkling of who it is that is playing him false, and breaking his heart; that





beautiful young lady at the park, whom I have seen scores of times making eyes at the young curate, worst taste in her; and did I not see her as she came out of the lane t'other day, when the gentleman and lady passed on horseback, crying as if her heart would break? Yes, I see it all, and bad luck it will be from beginning to end."

Norman, roused in a degree from his listlessness after half an hour had elapsed, began to think that he had better try to find some game before he returned to The Laurels, and walked on, intending to go into the turnip field, where partridges abounded; but on his way, a rabbit happening to cross his path, he fired at it.

The next moment a scream startled his attention, and looking round, he saw at some distance two ponies, both without riders, for a lady had jumped from one, and was bending over a boy, who was lying on the ground.

The report of the gun had caused





Georgie's pony to start violently, and the unexpected shock had precipitated the boy over its head. In another moment Norman had joined the party, at first unconscious whom he should find, and there he saw Car kneeling by the side of her brother, who had been stunned by the fright and fall, in all the agonies of sorrow and affright, imagining, from his pale countenance, that the boy was dead. So genuine was now her anguish, that even the appearance of Norman made no further impression upon her than joy that some one was at hand to help her.

"Oh! Norman, Norman," she cried as she rushed to him, and clung to his arm, tears and sobs breaking forth, "say, for God's sake say, is he killed? My little brother! Oh, Mamma, Mamma, and she will think it is all my doing!"

Lawless raised the child in his arms. "He is only stunned," he said quietly, and taking from his pocket a flask, he poured





some sherry down Georgie's throat, and very soon his colour began to return to his white face, his eyes to open, and he said petulantly, "Don't make such a row, Car, or they'll never let me ride again, I've only had a spill," and the brave little fellow struggled to free himself from Norman's arms, but he was still faint and shaken.

And now Car's excitement took a new turn, delight at the boy's recovery, she imagined from actual death.

"Oh, Georgie, Georgie, darling Georgie!" she cried, kissing and fondling the boy; and then-for the first time since the accident, so sincere had been her affright— she thought of herself.

Oh, what an opportunity!

And the impulsive, reckless creature, who had been kneeling by the side of the man she had so deeply offended, assisting in recovering the boy, now, still retaining that posture, seized his hand, pressing it to her lips, her heart, exclaiming, in those





magnetic tones, of hers, her beautiful eyes looking so beseechingly through her tears, "Norman, Norman, you have saved the boy! how can I thank you enough? And oh, Norman, will you-can you forgive me ?"





The young man gazed fixedly on the tempter; and whilst gazing, remembrances of a moonlit scene, of deeds, of words, which had sunk so deep, and had festered in his heart,―rose up before him, casting a disenchanting shadow even over the adored one who so humbly supplicated at his feet.

"Forgive you, Car?" he gloomily replied. "Can you think for a moment that is possible? My memory is a retentive one." And he strove to withdraw his hand, although his heart was beating hard with the suppressed emotions with which it was filled.

And Car, covering her face with her hands, continued to weep whilst she murmured,





"I have deserved this from you, Norman. I am quite aware of all the contempt and hatred I merit from your hands; but, oh! if you could only know how wretched I have been, at least you would pity me." Norman was speechless-deadly pale; he sat still, holding the boy in his arms.

"It was inexcusable, I well know; but it was done in folly, not wickedness,” she continued.

"Oh! do not try to extenuate any part of your conduct," now indignantly cried Norman. "And, Miss Eversfield, as your brother is so much better, he had better be taken home. I will lead his pony, for he seems a good deal shaken.”

"Yes, Car, I am all right now; only a little shaky. What are you making such a fuss about, kneeling there, crying in that way? What a baby you are!"

And he went to her, and tried to pull her tear-stained face towards him, she, really nervous and excited, the shock of Georgie's





accident, and the sudden meeting with her former lover having quite upset her, threw her arms round the boy, and wept more bitterly than ever.

And Norman watched her with sensations of the most mixed nature-passionate love, but fierce anger, distrust, and repellant recollections, causing a revulsion of feeling, which held him back from rushing headlong into the snare of her fascination.

He had even, with seeming calmness, assisted Car to mount her pony; and then, lifting the boy on his, he holding the bridle, led it gently towards Everslee.

Not a word did he speak to her. Little Georgie, now himself again, was the spokesman, and was loud in his entreaties that Car should not tell of the adventure.

"We'll go to the stables, Captain Lawless, and then no one will see us," the boy said; "and, Car, pray don't go to mamma with those red eyes, or you will frighten her to death. How silly of you to cry; don't





you



think so, Captain Lawless ?- but girls are so fond of blubbering."

And thus they went on, until they were on the point of emerging from the wood, and entering the park, and Car in desperation, for with affright she now feared that indeed her former admirer was finally lost to her, said faintly,—

"Captain Lawless, come here for one moment,” and Norman was immediately by her side.

"I must see you again; I cannot live without your forgiveness-only once; and then when we meet next, it shall be as utter strangers."

"Of course, Miss Eversfield, if you wish it. But where am I to have the honour of seeing you?-am I to call at Everslee?"

How tumultuously and rapturously the blood rushed into the infatuated young man's heart, but still he maintained a cold demeanour.





"Oh no; I will be in this wood to-morrow, at eleven o'clock."



"and



"You shall be obeyed," he said; now you are so near home, and your brother so perfectly recovered, I will leave you;" and taking off his hat to Car, and shaking hands with Georgie, he turned back into the wood, on his return to the Laurels, bearing with him a countenance of very changed expression.

Of course Car had to account for her own swollen eyes when she returned home, and to tell Mrs. Nelson about Georgie's fall; and the doctor, who happened to be there at the time, visiting Lady Julia, was consulted, and pronounced that no harm was done, so Lady Julia was to hear nothing of his accident.

 But, Miss Car, what is this Master Georgie tells me about your meeting Captain Lawless?" Nelson asked anxiously, as she noted the girl's disturbed counte



nance.





"What is it, nursey!" Car exclaimed, throwing her arms round her neck, "I am the most unfortunate girl in the world. I have lost him; and I feel that I should have been so happy if I had married him; and now I really believe he hates me."

"Well, Miss Caroline, and do you believe he could do otherwise, after your conduct?"

What could Car say for herself? She was too much subdued to argue the point as usual. But she thought, "Well, tomorrow will decide my fate; and how thin and pale he has become, poor fellow! I really believe it is all on my account; but cold and stern as he looked-still-stillyes, I feel almost sure, somehow or another, that he still loves me in his heart; although, of course, he must be very-oh! how dreadfully disgusted with me!"

And Car was totally unlike herself the rest of the daypale and full of thought;





and when at breakfast the next morning her aspect had not changed, Geraldine looked at her with anxiety, but asked no questions.





CHAPTER XI.



CAR knew that at eleven o'clock all the different branches of the family were generally disposed of. It was again a fine bright morning when the girl slipped out of the house unperceived, and walked quickly, though stealthily, towards the wood.

She was not at all like the usually radiant Car; but pale, her countenance full of anxiety, and her heart beating fast. Yes, she had a stake to accomplish. Now or



never.



"I must make my peace with Norman, and marry him, or have to drag on an existence for the future, which will be worse than death. Did I not hear papa





say that he had all but sold the house in London? This country life would end in suicide, I am sure; and really, I like Norman, I did not know how much till I lost him. Oh, that Lord Glendinnon !- why did he ever cross my path?"

And even now; and with those resolves the wretched girl heaved a heavy sigh. And what caused it?

She was now in the wood. Not long had she to wait. Car instantly perceived a tall figure leaning against a tree, and advancing with trembling steps, she confronted Lawless.

"Oh, Captain Lawless, it is very kind of you to come. I feared you would not. But let us walk this way," she said hurriedly; "perhaps it will be better to go into a less public part of the wood."

"As you please," was the seemingly indifferent answer; and Car diverged into a path which led up a steep acclivity to a part of the wood, thick and impervious to those





from without, and where, amongst the clustering foliage of the autumn shrubs, a space had been cleared and a rustic seat placed.

We are not going to enter into the particulars of this scene.

Norman Lawless's mind, during the hours which had elapsed since he met Car Eversfield, had gone through many changes. At one moment a firm resolve, a better judgment seemed to be gaining ascendency over him.

He would not be so weak, so degenerate, to take back to his heart, as his future wife, a girl who, he had proof positive,— Oh! merciful powers, yes, though perhaps not wholly in deed, was in mind most certainly impure, false, perfidious, everything that was to be avoided in a wife. No, thank heavens, he had some self-respect left. But this promise to meet her,—what should he do?-and then, unfortunate young man, another mood imperceptibly





crept by degrees stronger and stronger over his senses. He looked upon his hand, that hand which had been pressed to her lips, to her heart, had been wetted by her tears.

And that piteous voice when she implored him to forgive her; and he, what a brute he had been, how cruelly he had rejected those prayers for forgiveness; and now he could tear his hair and gnash his teeth, when he thought of his barbarous conduct.

And so it went on, those alternate fits of prudent resolve, and fierce regret, and reawakened passion, rendering his manner and demeanour so strange, that Mrs. Bosanquet remarked to her son





Really, Herbert, I shall be glad when Captain Lawless is safe out of the house, for after what you told me of his nervous attack, I am rather frightened of your friend, he looks so strange. I hope he is not going mad."





Upon my word, I do not know what to





make of him," Captain Bosanquet replied; "I believe it is all owing to that loveaffair of his, with that abominable fast girl, Car Eversfield."

And certainly, when Norman Lawless went forth that morning to meet his perfidious love, his state was one of fearfully morbid excitement. Car soon found that she was by far the coolest, and, therefore, the strongest of the two. She had to encounter bursts of rage, of jealousy, reproaches, scorn. But she bore it all with wonderful meekness. She looked only to finally reaching the goal; she felt no tender outraged love to lash her feelings into frenzy; her heart was untouched, but still her object was to marry Norman Lawless; and to fail in this object would be a disappointment not to be endured. She really rather liked him; and then what was the alternative? No London-no society, and a country life, for ever and for aye.

And with such terrible bêtes noires in





prospect, what would she not have done to avert them! Even encounter something much less endurable than marrying this rich, handsome, ardent young lover.

Two hours had passed, and still they sat in this umbrageous retreat; but they had totally changed characters. The defiant look had passed from the young man's countenance. He was now the contrite, the adoring lover, all fierceness banished from the handsome face, intense love alone beaming from it; and in Car's, when first she had joined him so pale and agitated, nay, even humble, now flushed into brilliant colouring, sparkling triumph and exultation, its present expression.

She was then saying "But, Norman, what will Lady Curraghmore say? I know she is proud and ambitious. She will not think that I am good or grand enough for you."

"What care I for what she says?" Norman replied, scornfully. "I am not dependent upon her caprices, thank heaven!





When I am twenty-five I come into a fortune of some thousands a year, left by a relation; and till then, if my Lady does not choose to be liberal, I can always manage to get plenty of money. At her death she cannot keep me out of the Scotch property; and of course the Irish estates will be mine some of these days. No, my beautiful, my beloved," he continued, as he pressed her still closer with the arm already encircling her waist, more fervently to his heart, "you shall have everything this world can give; and oh, Car, what quantities of love will be showered upon you; and will be happy in that love, will you not, my angel, my adored ?"



you



And Car really thought she should; and her heart beat with much exultation, if not love. So well, indeed, did she enact her part, that even Lawless was perfectly satisfied, and it was only on hearing the school-room dinner-bell ring that the lovers concluded their interview, for Car said she must go,





for there would be an awful row if she were missing.

"Then I may come to Everslee the day after to-morrow?—you say Sir Hector returns to-morrow."

Permission was accorded; and after some few more lingering love-tokens, the againengaged pair separated, and Car at length rushed into the dining-room, heated and flushed; and flinging her hat anywhere, sat down to the half-finished dinner. Every one exclaiming, "Where have you been, Car?"

And the governess, looking stiff and offended, added, "Yes, you are indeed very late, Miss Eversfield."

"I am late, Miss Fisher; however, I will not detain you long; anything will do. I am not hungry." And as Car commenced her slice of mutton, which was half cold, her inward ejaculation was,

"Thank goodness, leg-of-mutton dinners are nearly at an end for me."





CHAPTER XII.



NORMAN LAWLESS is again the acknowledged suitor of Car Eversfield. Sir Hector, with fear and trembling, has once more given his consent to the marriage.

Much did he say to his daughter, who sat by his side trying to look demure, and to listen to the grave words which flowed from her father's lips-and she did hear a chance one now and then, but soon, alas! poor man, they fell unheeded on her ear. Some far more amusing reverie had plunged her hearing faculties into oblivion, and if a qualm of conscience startled her for a moment to the recollection that her father was speaking, and his affectionate warnings for a brief space touched some chord of her





heart, lovingly she kissed him, murmuring, "I will, I will, dear pappy, you will see what a good little wife I shall be;" but the next moment again she was in dreamland, -perhaps deep in the arrangement of her trousseau, or some such vanity.

Car had to submit to be lectured from every quarter, but little cared she. Her temper was naturally easy, and her temperament so wholly careless and reckless, that as long as she had things all her own way, she was perfectly indifferent as to the opinion of others.

She was in the highest spirits, and certainly appeared as happy as a fiancée could possibly be; and it was a sight quite refreshing to see the young couple together, not a cloud seeming to dim the bright horizon of the moment.

Car never looked so beautiful, and Norman's countenance never had been so benig nantly animated. All its fierceness had vanished, the most devoted love seemed to





have softened every feeling of his heart, every glance of his eye.

During the conversation in the wood, and before he had surrendered himself heart, and soul, into her hands, and accorded the forgiveness implored so beseechingly by Car, he had made one important stipulation-She must swear, not as she had done before the false one-but by everything most sacred in heaven and on earth, that, if he forgave her, Lord Glendinnon must in future be to her as an utter stranger; and Car, horrified by the wild looks of the injured man, and feeling that her only chance with him was, without any reserve, to accede to all he demanded, in the excitement of the moment, on her very knees, repeated after him an oath awful from its solemnity, and it was not till then that Lawless had clasped the now pale and really agitated girl to his heart, bringing back by his fervent kisses the colour to her white lips and cheeks.





"Never, sweet Car, shall I again say one word upon this repellent subject; you have wiped it all away from my mind by your promise your vow-and let us never, even in thought, revert to its unworthy remembrance."

And all went on without a moment's ruffle on the smooth stream of their courtship.

Lawless pleaded for an early day. Car was nothing loath. The young man had, with the utmost indifference as to whether she liked it or not, written to inform his mother of his engagement. He also epistolised his father, saying:



"DEAR GOVERNOR,



"I have taken your advice, and found a wife sufficiently beautiful to satisfy your highest ambition for your son—and good-tempered, too,-your advice went no farther, remember. She has not a penny-at least not without inconveniencing her father;





and I want nothing but herself. If my Lady does not choose to give me wherewithal to live respectably, why, she must let it alone. I can raise money on my expectations of old M'Kintock's legacy, which will be due in two years.





Pray advise her Ladyship not to bother me by objections, they will only make bad blood between us. You will glory in my luck; only pray, respected pater, keep your hands off her, I beg. I believe you will be in love the moment you set eyes upon her; and you are such a devil of a Philanderer, to say nothing of your being the handsomest scapegrace going, that I should not wonder if I became jealous of you.







Propitiate the old lady, who keeps such fast hold of the strings of the money-bag.

"And believe me, your dutiful son,

"NORMAN LAWLESS."



At Lough Rea the effect this communi





cation occasioned may be easily imagined. To Lady Curraghmore it came as a thunder-bolt, annihilating every hope for the future for her only son. That girl to be his bride, her daughter-in law! whose reputation was even tarnished to an irremediable extent.

For how was it possible to suppose that in such an establishment as Westover Castle, with so many eyes and ears always on the alert to hear and see with magnifying effect everything that went on, such a catastrophe as the moonlight walk and its results would not soon be the nine days' wonder—first whispered mysteriously, and finally bruited about, the rumour speedily announced publicly, and of a certainty exaggerated even into still more than its really repulsive form?

Lady Curraghmore had heard it all, and with malicious satisfaction had gloated over a story which had relieved her from





the dread which even she, with her obdurate mind, keenly felt, that Norman might become a prey to this unprincipled girl; and disagreeable as the lady was in disposition, person, and demeanour, we can readily enter into her feelings, and even pity her as a mother, when she read the following letter:



"DEAR MOTHER,



"I am engaged to be married to Miss Eversfield. Do not trouble yourself to make any objections to the match. I have made up my mind, and no power on earth will change my resolve. As for money, thank heavens! I am independent on that score. Of course I shall be very happy to accept any amount of liberality from your hands; but should it not suit you to increase my allowance, I can easily borrow a few thousands to jog on with for the next two years, when I shall be entitled to old M'Kintoch's money.





"As I said before, pray don't trouble yourself to give me any advice upon this point, for it is all settled.

"Your affectionate son,

"NORMAN LAWLESS."



The indignant mother was goaded to frenzy by this letter. Well, indeed, she knew the nature of her son.

No, it would be useless for her to attempt to avert this evil. But she could not succumb passively to so awful a calamity.

And that very same day Lady Curraghmore was on her way to London, after having wreaked her desperate anger on all around, her husband in particular, who, with his loose ideas on things in general, not looking upon this matter in so severe a light, and having, in compliance with Norman's request, ventured to propitiate his irritated lady by a few extenuating words, was ordered to be silent, and never





again to dare to excuse a deed upon which her curse would fall. She would see Norman, and if he still persisted in his determination to marry this girl, she would have nothing more to say to him.

And with these impotent resolves the almost frantic woman departed, leaving the rest of the party at Lough Rea sensibly relieved by the removal of her presence. But Linda, what did she feel, when her uncle informed her that Norman was going to make a fool of himself, and marry a girl who, though very beautiful, was not quite so good as she should be?

She turned very pale, and exclaimed,— "Who is she, uncle?"

"Oh! her name is Car Eversfield. She is considered the fastest girl in London, and a jilt into the bargain."

"The beautiful fiend!'" Linda ejaculated, clasping her hands, and looking the image of despair. "Oh, uncle," she continued, in the greatest excitement, "cannot





it be averted-this dreadful calamity? She is, I know, a wicked girl. Norman called her a beautiful fiend;' and when he was here she had made him so wretched -he told me so."

"Oh, my pretty Linda, never mind what he said then; no doubt they had been having a lover's quarrel, the foolish young creatures! Perhaps Norman might have chosen more wisely; but, Linda, where there's no love, there's no happiness. And what would you have the boy do?-marry an ill-favoured, cross-grained woman? Oh, by my troth, there's neither wisdom nor pleasure in such a business;-no, rather take a halter and hang yourself instead. I wish the girl had been a trifle steadier; but she is young and lovely as eye could wish to look upon; and, if she only loves the lad, she'll mend, take my word for it, so don't be down-hearted, little darling," the good-natured man added, drawing the





girl towards him, and looking into her face, white and now deluged with tears. "Faith! but I tell you what, Linda, I wish he had fancied you instead; and, now I think of it, he was very sweet upon you in that oriel window, whispering for ever so long."

"Oh, uncle!" exclaimed Linda, her pale, tearful face now rosy red, "what an idea! I do love Norman,—oh, how dearly I cannot say,—but I have always thought of him as a brother; and," she continued, the most fervent, animated expression irradiating her countenance, “I would give my last drop of blood to serve him in any way. What would I not do to prevent this dreadful marriage! for, uncle, you may depend upon it, that this girl is most unworthy."

"Oh, but she is handsome, my dear; and you little know how much a man will do for a beautiful woman. My Lady is gone off to see if she can talk Norman out





of this folly; she might have saved herself the trouble-she never could bully him! And oh, Linda, after all, won't it be a relief to have a pretty face to look at ? Till you came, little darling, faith! were my eyes not starved at home? I really believe I am a better man since I've had you to look at, Linda Mavourneen!"

But Lord Curraghmore's logic had no effect upon his niece, who was thoroughly wretched.

Her only comfort was Lady Curraghmore's absence, and her unmolested wanderings amidst the romantic environs of Lough Rea, her cousin Margaret being fully occupied by the bride, Mrs. David Craigie, who was then visiting at the Castle.

Linda's stay in Scotland was prolonged from day to day, owing to Lady Elizabeth's protracted illness; and, much as she could not but dislike the forbidding, austere, and chilling manners of Lady Curraghmore,





still there was a charm and attraction in this wild home of Norman's, and the warm, affectionate attention of her uncle, which reconciled her to the evident dislike invariably shown towards her by Lady Curraghmore, who very soon returned home, her usually stern countenance more gloomy and ferocious than ever.





A terrible time it was for all those around, who were not quite callous to her appalling frowns, her awful words of condemnation.

Lord Curraghmore took it aisily, with the thoroughly careless insouciance of his native country.

"You have no need to look so pale and so scared, little darling," he would say to Linda, who sometimes felt terrified at the effect some insulting speech might produce upon her uncle, uttered by his wife. "I'm used to it as the lobster said when it was being boiled alive. I care not a straw for my Lady's hard words indeed, I like





them far better than her soft ones," and his Lordship made a face expressive of disgust. "Things are come between us just to the pass most endurable to me. We do not pretend to do aught but hate each other, and now I can exist in peace." "An extraordinary kind of peace!" Linda thought.



The wooing at Eversfield sped on merrily; the wedding was to take place without delay. Norman's interview with his mother had been, of course, a most stormy one, but ending, as usual in such cases, with no good results, the violent tempers of both only producing a scene of recrimination too dreadful to contemplate: a mother and her son bandying words, repulsive, unnatural, and sinful in their abusive signifi



cance.



"Now, Lady Curraghmore, I have told you my fixed determination. As for your money, you may keep it all as long as you





can-I wish for none of it. But just remember, that if you presume to write one insulting word to any of the Eversfield family, you never see my face again; and think not that anything you can say or do will prevent the marriage,-no, I can tell you that neither father nor mother, nor any man or woman on earth, shall ever stand between me and my intended wife." And thus they parted.





CHAPTER XIII.



IT was now late in the month of October. Sir Hector had a maiden sister, who lived in a pretty, tiny house in South Street. It was decided that to her care Car was to be consigned, in order that she might try on her dresses, and give orders, under the superintendence of this precise elderly aunt, with regard to the business of her



trousseau.



No letter had arrived from Lady Curraghmore upon the subject of the marriage; but Lord Curraghmore had, by order of his son, despatched a very characteristic epistle, warmly welcoming his son's choice as his daughter-in-law, and descanting in enthusiastic terms on his admiration of her beauty.





"Is it not strange that Norman's mother does not write one line of approval or sanction to her son's marriage? I fear, dear Hector, she does not like the idea of our wild Car becoming the wife of her only son -and how can I wonder?" For the poor invalid mother's heart sank when she thought upon her child,- very dear with all her glaring imperfections.

"Lady Curraghmore is a hard, purseproud, and very prejudiced woman," Sir Hector replied; "but Norman assures me that Car shall never be made unhappy by her interference or temper. I begin to like the ardent young man extremely, do you not, Julia?"

"Yes, there is something very winning about the young man," Lady Julia replied; "it is refreshing to witness such genuine love, and in any other hands———”

"Oh, my dear wife, pray don't let us always harp upon that string; for heaven's sake let us try to forget bygones, and en





deavour to look forward with at least hope. Car seems completely in earnest now -- as much in love as we could wish to see her." "Yes," said Lady Julia; but at the same time she heaved a very desponding sigh.

"My dear Julia, you almost provoke me; you never can think even leniently of poor Car."

"Well, Hector, you must bear with me; you know I am very weak, both in mind and body, and I cannot help giving way to all sorts of nervous dreads and fancies,— in short, it will be impossible for me to feel at ease until it is all over, and Car actually married. So hasten matters as much as possible, I implore you. I don't like the idea of Norman having to go to Ireland."

"He only goes to just see his company settled in their quarters, and return immediately; in the meantime, depend upon it, Aunt Jane will look sharp after Car. Although, really, I cannot imagine what mischief can happen now." And a thought





glanced through his mind, which although it caused a dark frown to pass over his usually benignant countenance, gave him at the same time a feeling of relief; he knew that Lord Glendinnon was safe out of the country, gone, in short, to Italy. So after parting with Lawless, now more devotedly in love than ever, her abject slave, her adoring worshipper, and towards whom she really began to feel some reciprocity of feeling, her father escorted Car to London, and placed her under the charge of Miss Eversfield, generally called Aunt Jane, a very prim, methodical, but kind-hearted woman, of between forty and fifty, who promised faithfully not to lose sight of her niece, with whose flighty disposition she was well acquainted. Too glad she was to give every assistance in her power to her brother and Lady Julia, to whom she was warmly attached, and whom she sincerely compassionated.

"And what a blessing it will be when





the dear girl is safe in the hands of a husband," was her constant ejaculation.

There was much to be done, the trousseau to be hastened, and all the necessary preparations attending a wedding. Oh! how constantly Miss Eversfield's door-bell (which had till now spent such a quiet time of it) caused the man-servant, grown fat and lazy, and not accustomed to such neverceasing calls upon his legs, and patience, to attend the summons of Miss Caroline's tradespeople! How henceforth would he loathe the sight of a mantua maker's or a milliner's basket!

The neat little mansion was turned completely topsy-turvy, every small room beginning to be strewn with some signs of the approaching event, but the aunt bore it at first with wonderful patience.

It will soon be over, and then, oh! will it not be a blessing that Car will be married and settled for life. What a girl she ishow trying to one's patience! Certainly the





young lady did not spare her aunt or any of her servants. She gave no end of unnecessary trouble. In the most exuberant state of wild spirits, never still for one moment, insisting upon always doing something, whether necessary or unnecessary, making the house ring with her incessant chattering and musical peals of laughter, flying like a whirlwind up and down stairs, eternally rushing into the drawing-room, to show some new article of dress or a most becoming little bonnet just arrived from Paris, or some such thing. No wonder that poor Aunt Jane, at a week's end, looked worn and and jaded, and began to question if she could possibly endure all this much longer, particularly as one of her duties consisted in having to sit some hours in Mr. -'s studio, whilst a large full length picture was in progress, insisted upon by Norman Lawless, who, before he started for Ireland, had settled with the distinguished artist all about the attitude, dress, &c.





The smell of the oil paints disagreed terribly with the unfortunate spinster, and she felt so certain that she should soon be laid up, with one of her bilious attacks, that she wrote to beg that Sir Hector would come up to London immediately, or send Geraldine to assist in taking care of Car; Miss Eversfield having full reliance on the superior steadiness and good sense of her second niece.

But alas! neither of them could leave Everslee, Lady Julia being more than usually ill. Poor Miss Eversfield, what could she do? for very shortly after she was powerless even to think, being laid low with one of those sick headaches which prove no respecter of persons or circumstances; and which render the most unselfish of mortals insensible, for the time, to every consideration save their own sufferings. So Car was left to the sole chaperonage of Mademoiselle Louise.





In a dressing-room belonging to a stately mansion in Piccadilly, Lord Glendinnon was making his morning toilet, assisted by the valet and prime minister to his pleasures, Pietro Courtier.

His Lordship does not seem, by the ferocious appearance of his countenance, and his impatient gestures and harsh words towards his obsequious attendant, to be in the most benign of humours, and no wonder!

He had advanced far on his journey to Italy, with metal most attractive awaiting his arrival in Rome-a fair lady who had preceded him by some few weeks, business at the last moment having detained him in London-when a telegram reached him, informing his Lordship that Lady Glendinnon was on her death-bed, and begged, as a dying request, to have a parting interview with her recreant spouse.

This intelligence certainly occasioned no pang to his conjugal feelings; he only, we





fear, added some not very flattering wishes that this had happened a few days' earlier, when he should have been on the spot to have attended to her most absurd demand.

However, there was nothing for him but to retrace his steps to England; for, on the death of her Ladyship, he was aware there would be business to transact which might require his presence. So go he must.

Poor Lady Glendinnon!-her husband had always hated her, and certainly his feelings did not soften towards his neglected wife even at this juncture, when he knew that she was suffering upon a bed of death.

We may imagine then what must have been his feelings on his arrival in London, after a hurried and most fatiguing journey, to hear that the invalid had rallied from her last attack, much to the surprise of all the medical attendants, and was quite out of danger, for the present at least.

It was the morning but one after his return to London that we now find Lord





Glendinnon still chafing with rage and vexation, and with curses, deep though not loud, execrating everything and everybody connected with his present misadventure.

And Courtier, the valet, who understood the management of his lord and master to perfection, went on his way with his usual address, stealthily watching Lord Glendinnon's countenance until he saw that the gloom was less portentous, and that he might throw in a word, which might perchance turn the current of his disturbed thoughts into a more amusing channel.

This Frenchman had been for years in the Earl's service, and from being at first a necessary evil, had become a privileged person-one of the pernicious effects of allowing a servant to be the domestic panderer to a man's vices. The tyranny of a confidential servant is certainly the most arbitrary of dominations.

Courtier was well aware Lord Glendinnon could not do without him, that he was





as indispensable as the unlimited exchequer of his Lord, and so he acted upon that presumption.

"Who do you think, milord, I met this morning, as early as ten o'clock, walking with her maid? Not the vieille fille who was at Westover Castle, but a pretty little compatriot of mine (that I could at once see by her whole tournure), and with that beautiful mademoiselle, Miss Eversfield."

Lord Glendinnon's countenance, Courtier saw at once, assumed an air of interest, although he said petulantly,

"Well! what's that to me?"

"Oh, no, milord, nothing, I know; but it so charmed me to see that young lady si belle, belle comme un ange, who, when I last saw her, was in such great despair, in floods of tears, in such sorrow; now looking so fresh and gay: ma foi, it made even old Courtier's heart beat to look at her as she passed; smiles upon her rosy lips, her eyes dancing seemingly with joy; but she is to marry





that fine



young handsome Captain Lawless immediately, I hear. So no wonder!"

We suppose Courtier was using counterirritation to suit his Lordship's present state. He could see that his arrow had hit the mark; for a shade of deep red crossed Lord Glendinnon's face, and a fierce gleam shot from his eyes. He spoke not, however, until he had completed his toilet, and then said,

"Make it your business to get acquainted with the French maid. I have heard of her, and her name is Mademoiselle Louise. I expect to hear, when I dress for dinner, everything relating to Miss Eversfield's plans and whereabouts."

"I will endeavour to obey your Lordship's order: but it will be no easy affair, in this great London, and Sir Hector's house at Bayswater, they tell me, is sold; however I will do my best; but, milord, I thought your Lordship was going to leave





London this evening, you told me so just one moment ago."

"But I have changed my mind, so do what I desire, and don't presume to ask questions."





CHAPTER XIV.



IT so happened that Lord Glendinnon, this time, was beforehand with Courtier in making the discovery just now his end and aim. Strange to say, for a man of his temperament and habits, Car Eversfield had not been forgotten. There was something about the fresh beauty of the girl, and her evident unbounded admiration of himself, which had wonderfully taken hold of his fancy.

And there was something in the unattainableness of her position, to this man whose practice had always been, both in war and love in the veni, vidi, vici line, which probably galled him in the most





vulnerable parts of his character, his acquisitiveness and self-love.

It was, therefore, with a sensation of fierce disgust, savouring of black envy, that he heard that, after all he had done to prevent it, this splendid creature was to be won and worn by that boy, Norman Lawless.

However, it is not to be supposed that Lord Glendinnon had been idle in his pursuit of pleasure and excitement since his Westover exploits. He had formed a new liaison-some very beautiful woman of course; and relieving his pique and envious feelings by predicting (when the intelligence that the marriage was again on the tapis reached his ear) anything but a flowery path of connubial felicity for the re-engaged couple, he endeavoured to put the matter out of his mind, after having given full vent to his spleen.

"That presumptuous idiot!-does he imagine that he can ever manage Car





Eversfield-she who never did, nor ever will care one rush about him-the whitefaced puppy! No! a pretty dance she will lead the young fool. And to think that such a glorious creature should be wasted upon him! Yes, an enviable ménage it will be, surely," and his lordship smiled sardonically. "I should like to murder the fellow, if it would not be doing him too great a benefit, for his life will be slow torture, a daily death of jealousy and revengeful agony."

We have softened, for the sake of our readers, the denunciations which passed through Lord Glendinnon's mind when he heard of Car's approaching marriage announced in the public papers.

And now his mood had again changed, those words of Courtier, the tempter, rang in his ears, the beautiful girl, whose image had clung so tenaciously to his memory



that moonlight interview



and



but we will not enter into





the remembrance and the reflections which they brought back, with such demoniacal feelings, to the vitiated mind of this polluted man of sin.

Poor, wretched Car, and far more wretched parents!



Lord Glendinnon had entered one of his clubs; he was in search of a person whom he expected to find there, but being disappointed in his object, he threw himself impetuously into an arm-chair, and began reading a newspaper.

Whilst thus employed, his ears caught some words of a conversation, spoken in an under tone, between two gentlemen seated not far off.

"So, that match is really to come off? I am glad of it, for poor Eversfield's sake."

"Yes," was the answer; "that is to say, if they can bring her to the scratch, but you know that girl is a very slippery hand."

"She certainly is a beautiful creature. I





saw her a few days ago, with that unfortunate aunt of hers, Miss Eversfield, who looks as if she found her hands a great deal too full with such a charge. She was in Howel and James's, where I went with a little quiet niece of mine, who was rather surprised and scandalised by the manner in which Miss Caroline was going on- Miss Eversfield, looking as if she could not help herself. I really pitied the poor woman, she seemed so worried and annoyed.”

"I didn't know Sir Hector had a sister."

"Oh yes! she is a comfortable, starched looking spinster, living in a snug little house in South Street; she told me that Car was staying with her, in order to procure her trousseau, and that the wedding was to take place without any delay, she was happy to say," she added with a groan.

Lord Glendinnon started up suddenly, and throwing the newspaper on one side, walked hurriedly out of the club, and getting at once into his cab, which was wait





ing, returned home, and having summoned Courtier and given him some directions, again departed.

Later in the day, Car, who was in a most restless state, wishing herself dead and buried rather than to be shut up all alone in that little room, in that dull street (for poor Aunt Jane was still ill in bed), faute de mieux, seated herself at the open window, the sun shining bright and warm, even at that advanced season.

There were few passers-by, the parks being at that empty season not much frequented; but still a few stray carriages might be seen, and upon Car's principle of "aught being better than naught," she did watch a few young men on horseback, who for the last few days had habitually turned down that street on their way to the park, for this was not the first time a radiant face had been seen issuing from between the closely-drawn muslin curtains; Car, whenever Aunt Jane's back was turned, being





wont, as her only chance of obtaining some variety, to rush to the window and gaze out upon the passers-by. She gloried in being stared at; it was a species of incense, so charming that it was always welcome, from whatever source it came.

To-day she felt particularly blue-devilish. Her aunt was very ill, and the formal old doctor who had attended Miss Eversfield





for years, and was as much a friend as a medical adviser, being well aware that this attack of his patient had been brought on by anxiety and worry, - had informed the young lady, in grave admonitory terms, that if Miss Eversfield was not kept very quiet, both in mind and body, he feared that her present attack would turn to jaundice, a most trying and lingering disorder.

"A broad hint to me, of course," Car thought, "to walk about this small cage like a mouse, never to speak above a whisper, and to waste all my precious time





in keeping prisoner to the house-but I won't stand that! I am to be married the end of the month, and my things are not half ready; and Mr. G says I must have several more sittings. I shall certainly go to him, as I have done since Aunt Jane took to her bed, quite early; for Norman will be mad if the picture is not nearly finished when he arrives. Heigho! I wish he was here! After all, I begin to think I am quite in love with 'my spouse elect.'"

In the absorption of these reflections, Car had, without thought, advanced through the open window upon the little balcony, -upon which flourished, in all the dignity of soot and dust, a few plants, and boxes of mignonette, forming as conspicuous an





appearance as when we first introduced her to our readers on a similar platform.

But now she stood there almost unconsciously-her thoughts far away, and they really were then with her absent lover.





She was thinking, "How pleasant it will be when I am married, and out of all this botheration! What a life I have always had of it-people continually at me from morning till night! And Norman says that if I only love him, he will let me do just what I like; and, upon my word, I don't see why I should not love the handsome boy — I verily believe I do love him. People don't always, indeed, scarcely ever, marry exactly the man who is their beau ideal; however, what does it signify? perhaps





She stopped short in her meditation, and almost a scream issued from her lips. The sound of horses' feet had caused her to turn

her head, and her eyes fell upon the stately form of Lord Glendinnon, who, reining in his horse for a moment, bowed his head with reverent homage, and then passed on, followed by his groom.

Car stood transfixed; her eyes mechanically following the retreating figure, till





the horse and its rider turned the corner into Park Lane. And then, with a revulsion of feeling which seemed to change the whole current of her blood,- for her cheeks and lips, before so brilliant in colouring, became deadly white,-tottering to the sofa, she threw herself upon it, ready to faint.

But in a moment or two she had started up into a sitting posture, and thus she remained for some time, her hands clasped over her knees.

"Oh! that man, that man!" she murmured. "Why has he started up again to disturb me? How is it-oh! what is itthat makes me feel thus ?" and she pressed her hand upon her heart, which was beating fast and wild. "I thought he was far, far away; and I was so happy, so contented, looking forward to my marriage with Norman without the slightest repugnance-but now-now-even that one look has unsettled all my feelings! What is it, I wonder? The man must be a





demon, a spirit of mischief, for one glance from those eyes is sufficient to bewitch me.” And Car covered her face with her hand, and continued to muse.

"But what does it signify? why should I be so foolish? I wish Norman would come," she exclaimed, starting up and pacing the room hurriedly, "and then it would be all right; and till he comes, I must never leave this house! Good heavens! if I were to meet him, and he were to speak to me, what should I do? And my vow to Norman-that dreadful vow- and his terrible countenance whilst he made me repeat the frightful words!"

Fate certainly had destined matters in that dark, inscrutable manner, which we weak mortals can never fathom-so antagonistic do they seem to our ideas, of what they should be.

Everything seemed to conspire against the peace of this unhappy girl, so unsound in principle, so wholly without heart, yet





with passions strong both in selfishness and power.

On going to bed that night, weary and unsettled, Mam'selle Louise had much to relate how she had met her brother, mancook to some nobleman, who had come up on business for a few days, and whilst walking with him, whom should they meet but Lord Glendinnon's valet, Monsieur Courtier, well known to her brother. "Oh, such a pleasant man! We became quite les amis intimes," the Frenchwoman continued. "He told me they had nearly reached Florence when Milor was telegraphed backhis Lady, it seems, was on the point of death, but she has recovered, pour le moment only, Monsieur Courtier says, for she must die very soon. Oh! Mademoiselle, he let me into many secrets. secrets. That That poor Lord

how unhappy he seems



to have been after



you left Westover Castle! Monsieur Courtier says he has never been like himself since; never did he see Milor so eperdument





amoureux; and when he heard of your intended marriage,-Monsieur Courtier happened to be in the room when the morning papers were brought in,-he never can forget his Lordship's face of anguish, and the manner in which he crushed the paper together, and threw it on one side, rushing out of the room at the same time, and shutting himself up for hours in his private room, from which he issued, with a countenance terrible, only to give orders for a journey to Italy."

All this, and many more additions made to this tissue of falsehood, was whispered insidiously into Car's ready ear.

Louise had evidently been taken most readily into the plot, and was certainly a most skilful accomplice. Lord Glendinnon was, without mistake, a liberal paymaster to those who pandered to his pleasures.

Car went to bed that night with very different feelings to those which had filled her trifling, versatile mind for the last few weeks.





CHAPTER XV.



CAR awoke the next morning unusually early, and, wonderful to say, with an unpleasant weight upon her mind.

"I really must not play the fool," she cogitated; "in three days more Norman will be here, and I shall be safe, so I am determined to be prudent. I'll make a vow not to stir out of the house, and shall write to Mr. G and tell him I cannot fulfil my engagement for to-day. Oh! that horrid oath! I suppose I cannot break it without going to Old Scratch; and, upon my word it would be a bore to lose my handsome young intended, and, just for the sake of a little fun, to get into of which I never can get out.



a scrape out

Fun, did I





say,-Heigho! it is more than mere fun. Oh! that adorable man! But no, I'll try to be a good girl for once in my life, and resist temptation. Yes, sore temptation."

And with these resolves, Car got out of bed, and commenced her toilet.

"You need not get out that dress," she said, as Louise brought forth and laid on the bed the simple but beautifully fitting white silk dress in which her picture was taken.

"I am not going to Mr. G- this morning; you must take a note to him from me.”

Louise looked aghast, but was silent; the wily woman understood too well the nature of her young lady to begin by expostulation. She had plenty of time before her, whilst plaiting and arranging Car's beautiful hair. Verily, the serpent who beguiled our first parent in Paradise was not more poisonous in its deadly counsel than this unprincipled woman in the





venomous, blasting suggestions she whispered in her ear. Well she understood how to attack the many weak and frail points of this unfortunate girl's characterher vanity, her easily excited passions; and the vile tempter watched her victim's face as in low, insidious tones, but in words we need not blot our pages by repeating, she spoke that which brought the crimson glow to the countenance before unusually pale, and, for her, a trifle more than usually pensive.

We will pass over this scene of shame. Poor Car! would that it could have been otherwise; but we grieve to say, the white silk dress was allowed to be put on, and with a large cloak entirely concealing it, she soon found herself in Mr. G's studio.

And there she stood, this beautiful fiend, represented as standing in the midst of a lovely parterre, her white dress hanging in rich folds about her exquisitely formed person; her hands full of damask roses; no





ornament in her hair, but its own beautiful plaits covering her small head with their luxuriant folds. Her faultless figure had been most artistically delineated; we might have thought, while gazing on its Circe-like charms, that, had poor Lady Julia been there, it would have been different, and that the beautiful bust and shoulders would not have been quite so dazzlingly revealed. But what could Mr. G- do?

Thus the beautiful girl stood before him, and what artist could resist the temptation of copying so perfect a model?

Yes, there she stood, motionless as a statue, unlike her usual mood, Mr. Gthought; for her restless eyes seemed fixed, as if in abstracted meditation.

Presently there came a knock at the door, to which, as usual, Mr. Grose to attend.

He found standing without a tall, commanding-looking man; with whose identity he was far from unacquainted.





"I am engaged with a Lady, my Lord," said, "but if you will step into



Mr. G.



the adjoining room



The visitor, however, with a courteous bow and smiling wave of the hand, cut his further excuses short by stepping, sans cérémonie, into the studio, and, in an instant, standing in his stately height before Car, who with blanched lips gasped forth,



"Lord Glendinnon!"



Lord Glendinnon advanced and took her hand, murmuring, as he bent over it, a few low words which seemed to produce the effect of soothing the apparent dismay which his first appearance had occasioned; and Mr. G, as he resumed his painting, had no reason to quarrel with the interruption. Whilst Lord Glendinnon sat opposite to her, conversing, the paleness, and almost stupid abstraction, of countenance he had remarked that morning in his subject, were replaced by a strange excite





ment, which, feverish as might be its nature, was none the less artistically becoming.

When the sitting was over-which the artist was unconsciously beguiled into prolonging by the agreeable company which had so enlivened the task-Car found, on returning from the room into which she had retired to resume her walking attire, and where Louise was in attendance, that the Earl was still waiting. She really felt rather faint and sick at heart; but what could she do?

She did, indeed, attempt some faint deprecating petitions; which seemed, however, to have proved wholly without effect. Lord Glendinnon did not leave her.

Nay, the route back to South Street seemed a far longer one than that by which she had come; and poor, helpless Aunt Jane was obliged to be content with the excuse of shopping, pleaded as a reason for the prolonged absence.





It was, however, still two or three days before Miss Eversfield would be able to resume her duties, and two more sittings was she obliged to allow her niece to attend, without her supervision. Car represented it as a matter of necessity, if the picture was ever to be finished. Two sittings professedly, for alas! but one had been in reality appointed; for the other was to be substituted, not a walk-that would be too public-but a drive in the brougham. This was earnestly pleaded as the last indulgence he should ever again ask, or which, indeed, circumstances would allow. And Car, in consenting, did so more in weak folly, and sheer idleness, than in actual vice, and fully intended that this certainly should be her last performance in the fast line.

The unstable girl was wholly unable to resist temptation, and particularly Lord Glendinnon's influence, which acted like a dire sirocco upon her feelings. It was the





last thing, after all, she wished to do,—to give up Norman Lawless. He was young and rich, and though—and though-alas! alas! she cared for him in oh! how very different a manner than for that "splendid, glorious man," as she called him, she was not going to be such a fool as to let him slip through her fingers, and bring confusion worse confounded upon her head.





And oh! she would sometimes muse, whilst her whole being shook with affright at the idea, "That vow-that dreadful Vow would that these few days were past, and that Norman was here, that I were married to him, and all was safe for till that is well over, I cannot answer for myself. But what harm in yielding this once more to the great enjoyment of a tête-àtête with that charming man? In short, I cannot, dare not resist it. I shall never be the worse for it, nor Norman the wiser; but the vow-that horrid vow! - well, I must be the most virtuous and the stupidest of





women henceforth and for evermore, to make up for the sin of breaking it."

And was Norman none the wiser ?

What though in both these walks from the artist's the most quiet and unconspicuous routes had been chosen,- though at this early morning hour, and empty season of the year, Car fancied she had been as unobserved as if London had been really the desert it comparatively speaking represented, or as if a decree had gone forth that all doors and windows, and eyes and ears, should be hermetically sealed? Lookers on at any time and season are to be found, and Peeping Toms, even in these days, are not exterminated.

No matter who it was, friend or foe, who first spread abroad the report, and mentioned it to Norman's faithful friend, Captain Asheton: all we know, is that the Electric Telegraph, that







messenger of woe to thousands,"

shot from London, and was darting across





the Irish Channel, its missive addressed to the Honourable Norman Lawless, worded as follows,

"Lord Glendinnon is in London. Come immediately."

And Norman, on the wings of hate and torturing misgiving, flew to follow the ominous counsel, and travelling all night, arrived in Town the very morning that the drive was appointed.

At once he rushed to Captain Asheton's lodgings, knocking up the still slumbering household, and making his way to the bedside of his friend, exclaimed,—

"Tell me the truth at once; has Car Eversfield been seen in company with Lord Glendinnon? You need not hesitate to state the facts," he resumed with astonishing calmness, seeing that the bewildered man, scarcely knew how to answer this terrible question.

The truth, indeed, was obliged to be spoken. And Asheton, who was acquainted





with all the previous circumstances relating to this unpromising engagement of his unfortunate friend, and who had endeavoured in vain to dissuade him from again allowing himself to be ensnared by the perfidious beauty, felt he had no course left to pursue but to state the facts of the case, which he had heard from a brother officer who lived opposite to the artist, Mr. G

and who had been an eye-witness of the carly meetings of Lord Glendinnon and the faithless Car.

'My dear Norman, knowing, as I did, the state of the case, and your previous suspicions of Miss Eversfield's treachery towards you, I felt that it was my imperative duty to tell you what was going forward,· and only hope you will not act rashly. She is not worth it."

The answer was a loud, unnatural laugh. "You need not be alarmed, old boy," he added “I shall have my revenge, but not in the manner you may imagine. I have









formed all my plans; you need not fear for me, I shall soon be safe from any danger from her, or I am much mistaken." And so saying he precipitately left the room, leaving Captain Asheton sorely perplexed.

He had acted for the best, but, gracious heavens! perhaps he had done wrong, for Norman's wild looks, his unnatural calmness, and the sinister expression of his countenance struck terror to his heart.





CHAPTER XVI.



AT a later hour, that same morning, a short, loud knock was heard at the door of Miss Eversfield's house, which when the servant opened, he was startled by the apparition of Captain Lawless.

Yes! an apparition he might well have thought it, so changed was the whole appearance of this handsome, triumphant, gay young man who, a short fortnight before, had been a personification of one who had indeed the ball at his feet. Ghastly he looked; his eyes bloodshot, his hair dishevelled, and his dress soiled and neglected.

"Is Miss Eversfield at home ?" he asked.





Yes, sir, but not down stairs yet."

"I mean Miss Caroline."





"Oh, Miss Caroline has been out some time;" she has gone, I believe, to Mr. G's. She generally goes early."

No further word was spoken; Lawless had turned, and was striding impetuously down the street. Again he asked, of the servant who opened the door at Mr. G—————'s, "Is Miss Caroline Eversfield here?"





No, sir; she was not expected: Mr. G——————— left London yesterday, and does not return till late to-day."

"Oh, very well!" was the reply; "but I shall go up stairs and look at the picture; I know my way," he added to the man who was following him, and with a fierce gesture waving him off. Norman entered the studio alone, and there stood the picture, now almost completely finished, perhaps the very masterpiece of all Mr. G- -'s artistic productions.

The subject was a beautiful one, and he had, indeed, throughout the whole course of the seance, painted con amore.





Car was very bewitching to the senses of every man who looked upon her, and it was rather an ordeal, even to the systematic professional man, to have such a subject so often before him; she, as was her wont in the presence of any man, endeavouring with all her might and main to captivate him by those glances she understood so well how to employ. We may, then, imagine what a striking picture it was.

Yes, there stood his "beautiful fiend" in all the zenith of youthful freshness; her face such a mockery of blushing, guileless innocence; her expression so tender, so confiding, rendering her brilliant eyes unusually gentle in their alluring softness. Yes, there she stood, the very counterfeit emblem of the bride a man might covet as a priceless gem, a creature at whose shrine every knee might bow with reverence, as well as love. Mr. G had certainly, in the two last sittings, caught some new expression which was unusual to the general





khall go na malin nike the portret I kursy my be added to the man vio va flority in ci with a ferte geture waving him of Noman entered the mião dote, and there stood the picture, now almost completely finished, perhaps the very masterpiece of all Mr. G————'s artistic productions.

The subject was a beautiful one, and he had, indeed, throughout the whole course of the seance, painted con amore.





Car was very bewitching to the senses of every man who looked upon her, and it was rather an ordeal, even to the systematic professional man, to have such a subject so often before him; she, as was her wont in the presence of any man, endeavouring with all her might and main to captivate him by those glances she understood so well how to employ. We may, then, imagine what a striking picture it was.

Yes, there stood his "beautiful fiend" in all the zenith of youthful freshness; her face such a mockery of blushing, guileless innocence; her expression so tender, so confiding, rendering her brilliant eyes unusually gentle in their alluring softness. Yes, there she stood, the very counterfeit emblem of the bride a man might covet as a priceless gem, a creature at whose shrine every knee might bow with reverence, as well as love. Mr. G had certainly, in the two last sittings, caught some new expression which was unusual to the general





insouciant aspect of Car Eversfield's countenance, some deeper feelings which must, for the moment, have been stirring at her heart. And Norman gazed at the picture of this woman he so madly adored long and silently, and whilst so doing the workings of his mind might have been read in his countenance. Fearful it was to denote the demoniacal passions which distorted it. But he moved not, spoke not; with his arms folded he stood, with his bloodshot eyes glaring at the picture, till suddenly he turned round and looked about the room as if seeking something. Mr. G's palette was on a table close by, and his brushes just as he had left them. A terrible laugh might have been then heard, and Norman Lawless strode towards the table, and covering a large brush with a thick layer of dark paint, approached the picture, and in another moment no vestige remained of the lovely face; it was completely obliterated by a daub of dark colour, and then the in





furiated young man proceeded to mutilate the appearance of the bust-the neck and arms of this representative of all that was attractive in a woman.

And when this deed was done, and no trace of the false fair one remained, another loud peal of laughter echoed through the room; and Norman, deliberately throwing himself into a chair, sat contemplating his work of destruction with insane triumph. "But," he suddenly exclaimed, "the man must be paid for his trouble, I am not going to cheat him, or have an action brought against me, so here it goes," and he drew from his pocket a check-book, and having ascertained that there were pens and ink on a table, he, with the utmost deliberation, wrote a check for the large amount he had engaged to pay for the picture, enclosed it in an envelope, directing it to Mr. G

There was certainly "method in his madness;" and having again cast a fearful look at the portrait, with another





horrid laugh he left the room, and meeting the servant, who was hovering about, rather mystified by the unusual demeanour of the young Captain, gave him the letter, which he desired might be delivered to Mr. G—————. Then, rushing into the streets, he got into the first cab he met, and soon after was on the railroad-his destination Scotland.





CHAPTER XVII.



LINDA had become most weary of her existence at Lough Rea, or, rather, of the uncongenial spirits with whom she was associated. Month after month elapsed, and still Lord and Lady Sunderland were in close attendance upon their daughter, who was, indeed, sick unto death.

All the asperities in the temper of the young girl seemed to be drawn forth by the changed aspect of her life. She who had been for so long accustomed to the mild rule of Lady Sunderland, and the refinement which pervaded every arrangement, every word and action, of the members of that family, now to find herself in such totally different companionship! And





Norman's approaching marriage- How the idea of these inauspicious nuptials had altered all her feelings and interests in all around!

Lady Curraghmore began by endeavouring to exercise the same tyranny over her husband's niece which she had so successfully wielded over her own daughters; but she speedily found what a very different spirit she had to cope with. Linda's warm Italian blood, mingled with that of her father's impetuous temperament, soon showed itself in the indignant burst of disgust with which she received the insulting reproofs from her ladyship, whose hard, light eyes were even seen to look with startled astonishment at any one who dared to dispute her will, and to return glances equally proud and defiant as her



own.



Linda's nature had not yet been softened and wholly changed by the transforming power of experience in the troubles of the





world. At this time her will was fierce and indomitable, her countenance even indicative of the hard struggle that was going forward in her heart-for the girl was very unhappy. She could not but dislike all those with whom she lived, save her uncle, and of him she saw very little, for Lord Curraghmore came as seldom as possible in contact with his most uncongenial family; but whenever she did see him, and whilst sitting by his side at dinner, he had always a kind word to say, which for the moment cheered her.

Linda chafed in spirit at what she considered the Sunderlands' desertion of her; of her, who for so many years had been as their daughter-forgetting how impossible it was for them to think of aught else at that moment, when Lady Elizabeth, always exacting, required all their thought and care. Now she began to appreciate and long ardently for what she had hitherto looked upon with cold indifference, the





presence of the gentle lady whom she had never before loved or estimated sufficiently. But the sharpest, bitterest, of all her heart sorrows were her thoughts connected with Norman, that cousin whom she loved so fondly, and who, she knew, was about to take a step which seemed only likely to lead to misery. And then to hear the words of contumely, the taunts, the awful predictions with which his mother, and of course his sister, loaded his name whenever it was mentioned, goaded her to anger which could not be controlled; and the fragile-looking girl, grown bold by her love for this long-cherished idol, would bandy words even with this fierce, vindictive woman, and bring upon herself scenes of violence and recrimination which only a spirit morbidly excited, as hers was at that time, could have endured.

It was on a night, after some such scene of violence, that Linda sat in her room. She was still dressed, though it was very





late; but her mind had been too much disturbed to do aught but either pace up and down the room, or sit with her hands clasped and teeth clenched, her dilated eyes fixed on vacancy, her heart swelling alternately with sorrow and deep anger, as she thought of the words that had been uttered, the dreadful things that had been said, of Norman.

 Yes, Norman!" she repeated, over and over again, "Norman, whom, let him do what he may, I must always love so dearly. And his own mother to say such dreadful words—even to wish that he may repent this unfortunate marriage by the neverending misery it will entail upon him! To wish him to be unhappy, that bright creature! And yet it is wrong of him, wicked and mad, knowing, as he does, what she isa beautiful fiend' even he called her."

And a dark look passed over her coun



tenance.



"Oh! what would I not have done to





have saved him from this fatal step? - but what could I do?" and she wrung her hands despairingly.

And Linda continued to sit absorbed in some such disquieting meditations, her eyes now fixed upon the window, from which the curtain was withdrawn; the moon, which was lighting the apartment with its radiant silvery beams, shining full upon



her.



Presently—but was it only a distracted vision of her brain?-no, surely, surely there was a dark shadow upon the casement window! She started from her seat in affright. What could it be? There was not even a balcony, but merely a narrow buttress or projection, thickly overgrown with the ivy and creepers which covered the walls, scarcely, apparently, wide enough for a man to stand upon.

The apartment Linda inhabited was in a remote wing of this old rambling house; her maid slept in a small room adjoining





it, but she had been long in bed and asleep. The terrified girl, transfixed with horror, her distended eyes riveted upon the window, distinctly discerned a man's head. A scream would have issued from her lips had she possessed the power to utter it. Could it be-oh! impossible—was it Norman's face she saw ?—his ghost, his spirit rather-that livid countenance which stared in upon her but for a moment?- for the next, one of the small old-fashioned panes of the window was smashed, and a letter fell through the aperture, and then the figure disappeared.

Had Linda screamed, her maid must have awakened; but the sight seemed to have paralysed her every faculty. Was it a dream or trance? She thought, as there she still stood motionless, powerless to move,-"That was Norman's face; I know it was; I never could mistake it; dreadful as he looked-and that letter, oh! that indeed is real," she ruminated, as the moon rays glittered on the white folded paper.





"What can all this mean?" she exclaimed, as, shaking in every limb, she stepped forward to pick up the letter.

"Yes, it is his own handwriting," she continued, as she looked at the address. "To Linda," it was directed, and then she sank into a chair, and hastily tearing the paper open she read these words





"Linda, how often you have professed affection for me-have declared that you would do anything, nay, even forfeit your life, to serve me. The moment has arrived when you can prove whether these protestations were true, or only spoken on the impulse of the moment-mere froth or reality. You have the power of saving me from the fate you have often deplored; but it will be at the greatest sacrifice of yourself, of your happiness-ay, no greater sacrifice a woman can make-therefore ponder, ere you do what I demand of you. I ask you now to come at once and fly with me. Bring with you a few necessaries;





for if you are at the foot of the Glengarry hills in the course of an hour, I warn you,

you will not again return to Lough Rea Castle. I shall consider your presence there in the light of an acquiescence in my wishes, whatever they may be, and all is prepared for our immediate flight. If your heart fails you, and you dare not come, another fate awaits me; that, too, is all prepared, and a moment will accomplish it. For your own sake, Linda, I tell you plainly, you had better not come; for, poor girl, why should you link your fate with that of a cold-blooded villain, who is planning to immolate you-and for what end, and for whom? Yes, but to make you an instrument to accomplish his revenge upon a worthless woman!

"Remember, in less than an-hour I must see you, or the alternative will be an easy task; one slight touch, and the deed is done."





Linda sat motionless, all her senses suspended, stunned, and thus it continued for a few moments; then, suddenly, she started up, and throwing her arms wildly over her head, she exclaimed

"I'll go, I'll go; whatever it may be-whatever it may cost me, I'll go!" And then, with her wild eyes gleaming, her knees trembling with agitation, she commenced hurriedly stuffing into a carpetbag a miscellaneous number of articles.

"I had better take this," she said, as her small trinket-box caught her eye, "who knows, it may be of use;" and then tying on her bonnet and cloak, she at once made her way down stairs, and easily found egress to the open air; bolts and bars, in these Highland homes, not being, as with us, of the same impervious nature.





CHAPTER XVIII.



AND Linda went forth to meet her doom. Although so late in the year, the night was bright and still; every surrounding object rendered conspicuously clear and beautiful by the softening light of the full moon, floating with such majestic grandeur over the romantic scenery.

A stupendous hill skirted the domain of Lough Rea, a rustic seat had been formed in the cleft of the rocky base, and it was there Linda found Norman Lawless.

"You are come then, Linda," he cried, as he sprang forward to meet her, seizing her hand and pressing it convulsively; "I thank you, little cousin."

But in what a tone, with what a look,





were these words uttered; what bloodshot eyes-what a haggard countenance! Linda felt a cold chill of affright run through all her veins as she looked upon her cousin. “Norman,” she said, falteringly, “what -what has happened?"

A bitter laugh was the answer.

"Norman," she continued, "you terrify me; tell me what has distressed you ?”

"Distressed me? that's your name for it — distressed me forsooth?" and again that horrid laugh rang through the clear air.

“But, Linda,” he continued again, clutchin both her hands, and drawing her towards him, "you can save me from all this —make me free."



“I—Norman?"



"Yes, you Linda; " he answered, "but will you? and indeed, can I ask you, poor child, to sacrifice yourself for a selfish, maddened wretch like me?"

"Oh! Norman, you know I would do





anything in my power to make you happy but what can I do ?"





"Happy!" he cried impatiently; "there is no question about happiness-that is over with me. But, Linda, I want to be henceforth free-secure from her."

"What, Norman! can you mean that beautiful creature you are so soon to





"Yes; or, as I now with all my heart can call her, that 'beautiful fiend,' whom, with your assistance, I will never marry."

"My assistance?-what can you mean?" faltered the trembling girl, who became every minute more terrified by Norman's unnatural manner. "Gladly would I do my best to extricate you from her influence, that she might never more have the power to hurt or to vex you; never cross your path again - but what can I do? for you will love her, will go back to her," she added, now passionately, "whatever she may be or do."





"Love her!" Norman inwardly murmured; "love her!-unfortunate wretch that I am so it will ever be! But go back to her!-no, Linda, I shall never go back to her," he added aloud; "that is to if you will, as you said before, assist me to prevent it."



say,







Norman, Norman," she pleaded, “say at once what you mean only tell me at



once."





 Mean, Linda? what else can I mean? There is only one thing to be done - you must marry me!"

Norman had sunk upon the rocky seat, she was standing by his side, and he leant his head upon his hands as he spoke, with a reckless desperation. He did not care even to mark the effect which this declaration would have upon his companion.

For several minutes she did not speak; and then he heard her say in a broken, almost wailing voice, "Oh, Norman! and you know you do not love me!"





"That is not the question, Linda," he fiercely responded. "I did not come here to make a declaration of love; I ask you will you marry me?"



only









No, no!" she cried, "not if you do not love me."

"Ah!" he exclaimed, with quiet scorn. "Well, it does not much signify; but I thought you loved me, and would prefer the alternative."

"And so I do love you; I do, Norman -better than my life; and—and," and she knelt weeping by his side, "I would die to serve you."

"But you will not marry me!" he repeated, and turned away his head in cold silence.

And there the poor girl knelt, and wept despairingly, not knowing what to do. Her love for Lawless—so strong within her at that moment, that it had reconciled her to be trampled under his feet-struggling with





the pride and self-respect inherent in her nature.

For a whole ten minutes, perhaps, she knelt thus silently-Norman neither moving his position, nor appearing to note her misery.

"He thinks I do not love him sufficiently; that I think only of myself; that I will make no sacrifice to save him from the treacherous beauty who will break his heart! And perhaps - perhaps in time in time he might love me; he loves me now as a sister he has often told me so;

and such love as mine must win me some

return must make him forget her."





Such were her closing reflections; and finally her devoted heart was able to brave anything better than his anger, his cold disappointment. She rose and murmured in his ear,

Norman, I will be your wife, if you



wish it."



"On any terms?" was the hollow-toned



answer.





And Linda again faltered an affirmative. She little knew the extent of what she was assenting to, or she might still have shrank from such self-immolation.

Then Norman slowly lifted up his head, and looked at her more eagerly, whilst he said, strangely and coldly still,

"Thank you, Linda; I thought you would not refuse me. It will at least do you little harm, poor child; and to me it will be salvation."

He spoke this, grasping tightly her hand; her head sunk upon his shoulder.

But only for a moment was this permitted-Norman seemed to shudder at this movement of affection in his promised wife; again he repeated the words,

"I thank you, Linda; but you know not the extent of what you are promising. Listen attentively to what I am about to say; let me speak whilst I have the power to do so coherently, for,"-and he pressed his hand upon his forehead, "I feel all





wrong here. Linda, I have asked you to marry me; I shall take care that the ceremony is legally performed, but we part at the altar never to meet again! And now say, will you marry me? Remember, I have another alternative," and, plunging his hand into his bosom, he drew forth a small pistol. "This is my alternative, Linda. You promise to marry me, consenting to our parting at the church-door for ever, or in another moment this miserable life will be ended. I care not which it is, as far as I am concerned-although, indeed, revenge is sweet, and that would be best accomplished by my marrying you.”

Deliberately the maniac, for such he really was at that moment, cocked his pistol.

"Now, Linda, decide! Promise to marry me under these conditions, or prepare to see your dearly-beloved cousin, to serve whom you have professed yourself so often willing gladly even to die stretched a ghastly





corpse at your feet say the word at once, for I can wait no longer," and he held the pistol to his forehead.

A scream issued from the lips of the astonished girl.



any



"Norman, oh, Norman, for mercy's sake stop, I will marry you," she cried—" under condition-only give me that pistol." Norman gave it to her, and in an instant it was flung over the precipice near which they sat.

"Then come away," he cried. No more thanks were given; he seized her hand, and prepared to depart. Happening to stumble against the carpet bag she had, by his orders, brought with her, he deliberately stooped down and shouldered it; then, with inconsiderate speed, the girl was dragged along over the stony path until they had reached the high road, where a carriage awaited them.

We must now recall our readers' attention





to the first chapters of this story, which describe Linda's inauspicious wedding, and her subsequent flight from London to



Paris.





CHAPTER XIX.



AND what was Car Eversfield about all this time?

She had awakened that morning with the uncomfortable weight of a disapproving conscience at her heart.

"This drive with Lord Glendinnon," she mused, "it will be really too bad, too improper even for me to venture upon What a fool I was to promise; but there is something about that man I dare not resist," and she was deep in reflection for some moments. "No it will never, never do; I must get out of it somehow or another," she resolutely murmured, and thus she remained cogitating till Louise came to call her, and then she rose at once, and com





menced her toilette, surprising the French woman by her grave abstracted looks.

Car had not told her Abigail of the intended plan for the morning. She was to have gone out as usual about eleven o'clock, saying that it was for the purpose of having her last sitting for her picture. The brougham, containing his lordship, was to be stationed at a spot indicated in Oxford Street- the Earl considering that locality a far more secure place for concealment than any quiet back-street in which a carriage of any description is a thing to But for the first time in her life, Car determined to do what was right—at least in this instance. "No, she would not go." So she sat down to the writing table and scrawled the following lines:



stare at.



"DEAR LORD GLENDINNON,

"I am really afraid to drive with

you to-day, so forgive my not coming.

"Yours most truly,



"CAR."





She however put on her walking things, and sallied forth, accompanied by Louise, and when they had proceeded as far as Grosvenor Square, she said—







"Louise, get into this cab" (she hailed one that was passing at the moment), " and drive to Oxford Street; close to a shop just opposite the Pantheon you will find a private brougham waiting; in it you will see Lord Glendinnon. Let the cabman give him the note, and come away at once, lest he should stop you and ask any questions. You will find me walking about here on the south side of the square, waiting for you. "How long will it take you to drive this person quickly to the Pantheon and back?" Car asked of the cabman, at the same time looking at her watch.

The man answered, "Not more than a minute or two after the quarter of an hour."





Very well," she continued, "Louise, I shall expect you will not be a moment longer, or I shall know you loitered on the road."





Louise shrugged her shoulders, and with some muttered observations in French, entered the cab and was whirled away, looking very cross.

And Car, with her mind not at all at ease, paced up and down the square till the cab returned, bringing back Mademoiselle Louise, who had not at all recovered her equanimity.

"Well ?" inquired Car eagerly.

"Well," answered the woman sulkily, and continued in French: "I have nothing to say; the cabman, as you ordered, gave Milord the note, and me voilà."

Mademoiselle Louise was much affronted that she had not been let into the mystery of the cabal, and was sullenly silent until they reached South Street.

The door of the house was opened by the man-servant, who, in a tone of voice sounding somewhat ominous, informed Miss Caroline that Captain Lawless had called half an hour before.





"Captain Lawless!" Car exclaimed, and turned pale. Her inward ejaculation was, "Thank God!" and it was with a feeling of relief and comfort at her heart that she eagerly asked,

"And when did he say he would return?"

"Captain Lawless did not say anything about returning, Miss," was the solemnly spoken reply; and somehow or other Car felt frightened.

Trouble brings with it, we think, an oppressive atmosphere, casting its gloomy shadow before. And certainly there was

an expression even on fat Thomas's face, a tone in his voice, which told that something was amiss; and Car rushed up-stairs with a beating heart into the drawing-room, in which Miss Eversfield was now seated.

"Car," she immediately exclaimed, "where have you been all this time? And do you know that Thomas tells me, Captain Lawless called half an hour ago, looking quite





wild, his eyes, bloodshot, starting out of his head? He says he scarcely would have known him, he looked so changed; and when he said that you were at Mr. G.'s he started off, Thomas said, as if he were mad, such a description he gave of him!"





Car sat down on the nearest chair, really feeling quite faint.

"What can be the matter?" Miss Eversfield continued; "he must have heard some bad news."

"He must indeed," thought Car, and her heart sank low. "Gracious heavens! if he has heard and my vow-my vow!"

She could have shrieked aloud, for the unfortunate girl saw clearly before her the whole truth, and that she had brought upon herself the doom she so justly merited.

"What ails you, Caroline ?" Miss Eversfield impatiently inquired: "do you know any reason why Captain Lawless should have looked thus this morning? I trust—” and now beginning to be alarmed, she





added, "Car, you surely have not been doing anything imprudent-wrong-whilst I have been laid up! Speak quickly, girl; why do you sit there, looking so pale and scared? You make me feel quite nervous."

"I am tired, Aunt Jane, and do not feel quite well. I know nothing of Norman's freaks; he is prone to vagaries—no doubt he has just come off his long journey; perhaps had a rough passage, and was seasick," she continued, trying to speak lightly. "Well, I'll go and take off my bonnet. I dare say he will soon cast up again."

And Car went to her room, and locking the door, that Louise might not enter, threw herself on her bed in an agony of terror.

"What am I to do, if he has heard anything? Oh! what a mad fool I have been! And, merciful heavens! now I think of it, the Denisons live opposite to Mr. G-, and who knows but that the son in the Guards may not have seen me go





out of the house with Lord Glendinnon, and he would be sure to tell Captain





Asheton, and he he hates me; he was once in love with me himself, and I worried his life nearly out. I know he always implored Norman to give me up; yes, I see it all-all."

And Car was really in a pitiable state. She feigned a headache for that day, and remained in her room: but the next she was obliged to come forth, and endeavour to sit patiently under the martyrdom of listening to every knock and ring at the hall-door with a beating heart: expecting tidings of Norman, and having to endure her aunt's wonderment, and interminable surmise and questioning.

The accounts from Everslee, also, were most depressing. Lady Julia was becoming daily weaker, and it was quite evident that all hope of her recovery was at an end.



Five dreadful days had passed since





Norman had appeared at the door of the South Street mansion. Miss Eversfield began to be seriously alarmed; and saw plainly that Car was also in a most perturbed state of mind. The aunt scarcely knew what course to pursue at this juncture. Sir Hector was already plunged in affliction, watching by the sick-bed of his declining wife; it would be cruel to add one pang to his heart, as long as it could possibly be avoided.





"Car," Miss Eversfield said, in a stern voice, on the morning of the sixth day from Norman Lawless's appearance, when they were at breakfast, both wearing on their countenances unmistakeable signs of great anxiety and annoyance. "Car," she repeated in the sternest manner, "I can no longer endure this state of things. I desire will tell me at once what all this is about. I am quite convinced you know more than you choose to allow. Yes, you unprin



you





cipled girl, you have, I feel convinced, committed yourself in some manner, and forfeited for ever the regard of that young man, who was so sincerely attached to you.”

"Oh, Aunt Jane, how cruelly you speak!" and Car had begun her usual loud whimpering, when Thomas entered with the 'Times' in his hand; and with a look upon his face, which, if it had been observed, might have conveyed the impression that he had seen some astounding intelligence whilst opening and drying the paper, he laid it, as usual, before Miss Eversfield.

This lady's ruling passion was the supplement to the 'Times,' it was the only literature which was essential to her comfort and happiness; so even in the midst of this important debate with the delinquent Car, who was seated opposite to her, she could not resist running her eyes over the Births, Deaths, and Marriages.

Her niece, who had her handkerchief to her eyes, did not heed what was going forward; did not see that first Miss Evers





field started violently as she glanced over the paragraph, and then knitting her brows fumbled in her pocket for her glasses; her face all the time very pale, and her lips tightly compressed.

With trembling hands, she adjusted the spectacles, and read again.

"Car," she exclaimed in a tone, greatly resembling a scream, "what can this mean?" and she read aloud

"On the 15th instant. The Honourable Captain Norman Lawless, Grenadier Guards, to Rosalinda, daughter of the late Honourable and Reverend Valentine Lawless."

Car hastily rose, and snatching the paper from her aunt's hand, eagerly read over the words. Then letting it drop from her powerless grasp, and exclaiming —

"Yes, it is all over with me!" she fainted away.

Who would ever have imagined the reck less Car brought to such a feminine extremity?





CHAPTER XX.



POOR Miss Eversfield! The post had been late this morning; but scarcely had they removed Car into the drawing-room, and laid her upon the sofa, when the overwhelmed lady's excited nerves were again irritated by the sharp, sudden, and the too often terrifying sound of the postman's knock.

"What next am I to hear?" she exclaimed, as she received a letter in Sir Hector's handwriting. The contents were not indeed of a composing nature-it ran as follows:



"DEAR JANE,—



"That wretched girl has again brought trouble upon herself, and every one.





She has contrived to associate with that scoundrel Glendinnon; Norman Lawless heard of it, and has written to tell me that, as the only sure means of freeing himself effectually from her future influence, he has married another woman. He refers me to Car, to exonerate him in my eyes from what may appear a breach of his solemn



contract.



"I am, as you may imagine, as nearly distracted as a man can be. If possible I shall start by to-morrow night's train, and arrive in the morning to have an hour's conversation with her, whom I can never more consider in the light of a daughter.

"Yours, affectionately,

"HECTOR EVERSFIELD."



"My father, my poor darling papa!" cried Car, sitting up in her bed that same day, little resembling the brilliant Circe, the laughing Bacchante, the beautiful flirt of





other days; but a pale tear-stained Magdalen; her hair streaming disarranged around her shoulders, her hands clasped over her head, her countenance disturbed with grief.

"No, I cannot see papa, and he so unhappy about mamma! I deserved all so richly it is a judgment surely for my sin, my perjury: yes, that oath, that dreadful oath, which I made even on my knees, ending with, 'So help me, God: ' no wonder He has forsaken me. But what am I to do now? for I can not, will not meet my father's eye. Once I saw it fixed upon me in anger, and then it nearly killed me; and now all I have done is so far, far worse. And Norman, poor Norman, whom really after all I like so much. Yes, I feel sure I should have loved him, and have been so happy with that handsome boy; and now to what a life I have to look forward, death, anything would be better."

Car was indeed in a miserable plight, and thus she still remained, at one moment





walking about the room, at the next flung despairingly on the bed.

Louise glided noiselessly into the room. She had been several times ordered out by Car, loaded with reproaches and abuse. For the last few days, she had not spoken to her, or allowed the woman to utter a word to her.







"Yes, you, you depraved wretch, that you are," she did not scruple now to say; you lured me to this ruin, you persuaded me to meet Lord Glendinnon that morning when I had resolved to behave properly and keep out of his way. Yes, it was you who did it all; get out of my sight, you vile woman!"

But now exhausted and thoroughly wretched she had not strength to resist the hypocritical entreaties and crocodile tears of this wily creature, that she would allow her to weep with her, to console her, if possible, by her sympathy. Louise was an admirable actress, and a clever fiend.

At length she persuaded her young lady





to lie down she was really faint and ill, and smoothed her hair, bathed her temples well with eau-de-Cologne, made her swallow a composing draught, and watched the countenance of her charge calming, softening by degrees, and then she spoke a word or two; but an impatient shake of the head warned her it was too soon. Again she hazarded a remark, a frown might be still seen on Car's brow, but Louise knew well the ground on which she stood.

An hour elapsed, and Car and her Abigail might be then seen in deep confidential discourse, Car's face now flushed, her bedimmed eyes sparkling with excitement, a reckless expression being now substituted for the look of intense misery which had before so altered the character of her countenance.

Car's mind was working fearfully: wild desperate suggestions, and dark and terrible resolves, were now passing through her mind. The train had been all prepared, and now





what was left to her but that it should be fired?

"Yes, Louise," were the words she spoke at the end of the long conference, "I see plainly that there is no alternative; I must do it, dreadful as it is."





That night, Miss Eversfield sleeping heavily in the next room, Car stole downstairs, and from the lower premises gained access to the street, and ere the day had fully dawned was on her way to Dover with Lord Glendinnon; and so it seemed as if there was an end of everything for the wretched girl, and all those whom she concerned; yet as far as human eye could see, a Providence, if such it could be called, which often refused its aid to less flagrant offenders, came forth here in behalf of the guilty.





Late that same day a telegram was following Lord Glendinnon across the channel, announcing the death, quite suddenly at last, of his countess, and the very next morning in Paris the second nuptials of the Earl were solemnized, Sacrilegious adaptation of such a term to an occasion so disgraceful!

The papers announced one day, the 17th instant, the decease of the Countess of Glendinnon; on the next, the world were startled and scandalised by the following astounding paragraph: "Married in Paris, on the 18th instant, the Earl of Glendinnon to Caroline, eldest daughter of Major-Gen. Sir Hector Eversfield of Everslee, in the county of:





CHAPTER XXI.



MISS EVERSFIELD was awakened the next morning by the ominous words, "Don't be frightened, ma'am, but neither Miss Caroline nor Mademoiselle Louise are in the house, and their beds have not been slept in."

Miss Eversfield started up in dire affright. "My brother, Sir Hector, has he not arrived ?"

"No." But a letter was put into her trembling hands.

It was to say that Sir Hector was prevented setting out immediately, but would be in London late that night.

"Temple, for mercy's sake, send for Mr. Johnson! He will advise me what to do





about Car, and give me something to take, for I believe all this is killing me,-I feel so ill!" and the poor lady sank back on her pillow, looking very like death indeed.

Mr. Johnson, her medical attendant and kind friend, fortunately lived close at hand, and soon was at the bedside ministering to his patient, and listening with much concern and interest to her very distressing story.

His first advice was, that a telegram should be despatched without delay to Sir Hector; and then a consultation was held as to the direction in which messengers had better be sent to gain tidings of the runaways. Several places were mentioned; but all considered most unlikely, considering the hour at which Car must have escaped.

"I say," whispered Thomas to Mrs. Temple, "what do you think of my going to Glendinnon House, and asking there if they have seen Miss Caroline?"

"Glendinnon House!" exclaimed the Abi





gail, who was as straight-laced and bornée in her ideas as her mistress. "What a

notion ! Do you think that a niece of Miss Eversfield's would ever have done such a thing as that? Why, Lord Glendinnon's house is not a fit place for young ladies to go into, particularly in the middle of the night!"

"Well, I only know," answered Thomas, "that Mr. Courtier, his Lorship's valet, who bears about as indifferent a character as his Lord, has been prowling about this street for these ten days or more; and I know for certain that the French ma'amselle, who is a regular bad one, is a great friend of his. And I have heard her talk of Lord Glendinnon being desperately in love with Miss Caroline. Lor, who knows but

Mr. Johnson prevented this speech being completed; nevertheless he took a hint from it, and saying he would soon return, went forth, and getting into a cab was soon in





Piccadilly, and at the door of Glendinnon House.

The window blinds were all drawn down, indicating the absence of the lord of the mansion, and the surly porter confirmed this fact, by saying, as he put out his head, that his Lordship had started for the Continent.

แ "May I ask when Lord Glendinnon left London?" Mr. Johnson inquired.

The man, looking insolently at the questioner, now shut the door, which he had only partly opened, in his face, muttering, "A week or more ago."





Lord Glendinnon's servants were quite accustomed to lie.

The distracted Miss Eversfield and her household had nothing more to do but to await the answer to the telegram.



It is one of the disadvantages, we think, of these march-of-intellect days, to live under the constant dread of telegrams; these





foretellers of trouble, far oftener than of pleasure or relief,—for the old proverb that "bad news flies fast " is now more than ever verified. For our part, we were quite satisfied with the good old times of a single post in the twenty-four hours, to have only one period of the day of anxious anticipation, when our hearts must flutter, and our hands tremble, as they grasp the paper messengers. That postman's knock even! It is quite enough to make the poor, nervous overburthened père or mère de famille, forswear London and all such post-ridden localities.

But to return to our present telegram. Sir Hector had been completely upset by the last heavy blow which this sad disgraceful termination to Car's engagement had dealt to him. His energies had been weakened by constant attendance on Lady Julia, by witnessing her sufferings, and knowing that he must soon lose a wife, beloved so tenderly. And now, in what a





position he was placed! The mother must never know this last act of her daughter. No; she must leave the world in blessed ignorance of her child's utter worthless



ness.



"That I should have lived to realise the idea that her death would be gain;—yes, gain in every sense of the word! My poor darling Julia, it is indeed best that you should go; this world would henceforth be a miserable, a disgraced one to you;-and if it were not for these other children, how gladly would I pray to God to remove me also from all this distracting wretchedness."

Geraldine saw that Sir Hector was in no state to undertake a midnight journey, in short, that it was quite impossible. He could scarcely rise from the sofa on which he had thrown himself, after having read Lawless's letter, which had arrived by a second post. He was heart-stricken, the unfortunate father!





"For poor mamma's sake, be strong, dearest papa!" the good daughter urged. "She is better to-day, so you must not distress her by any appearance of suffering. Remember," she added, sadly, "what Dr. C. said,—the slightest agitation might produce very serious, (if not—yes, we must not forget the terrible truth-fatal) consequences. I can say you have a headache, and you might go to bed early. A night's quiet reflection will better enable you to see how to act in this terrible business. Oh, Car, Car, how wretched you make us all!"



The morning had now come, the unconscious mother had passed a better night, and was in more cheerful spirits. She was tired of her bed, she said, and had risen seated in an armchair, supported by pillows; Sir Hector by her side, helping her to breakfast, Lady Julia spoke more hopefully this morning; but alas, all she





said bore reference to the absent Car, and her approaching marriage.

"Indeed, dear Hector, the more I think of it, the more fortunate I consider our child. I really like the young man, and I am sure his attachment to Car has stood the strongest test-he has continued to love her, in spite of all her faults."

Sir Hector could scarcely suppress a groan.

"If I am only spared to see her married, it will be the greatest comfort to me, dearest," she continued, laying her thin hand upon his: "but what ails you, Hector? how very ill you look!"

Fenton now entered the room, holding in her hand a letter.

"A telegram, Sir Hector," she whispered, but the poor man, already so nervous and excited, alive to every fear of coming evil, forgot all caution, that his wife's life hung upon a thread so slender, that the slightest jar would snap it, and snatching the





missive from Fenton's hands he hastily tore it open, and read the words which seemed to blast his vision.

Starting up, with clenched hands and death-like countenance, he slowly spoke some low, deep words, heard, however, distinctly by the unfortunate mother, and rushed distractedly from the room.

Then his voice might be heard giving orders, in a loud, harsh, unnatural tone, that a carriage should come round immediately to convey him to the station, for the half maddened man remembered no longer even his dying wife. His thoughts were all curses, yes, curses on the man who he knew was the seducer, and still more horrid to think upon, curses on the child who had once held nearly the first place in his heart.



But, wretched husband, what sounds are these which now ring on your ears? shrieks of distress, and one voice, that of the usually





calm Geraldine. For a moment Sir Hector stood transfixed with terror, the next, and he had rushed up-stairs, and was in the passage leading to Lady Julia's room, the door of which was open, and from which Nurse Nelson was hurriedly issuing.

"Oh, Sir Hector, do not go in, it is of no use, she's dead!" and as if he had also received his death-blow, this man, a lion-hearted soldier on the battle-field, but tender as a woman in his home affections, fell lifeless to the ground.





CHAPTER XXII.



LINDA's disappearance from her bedroom, when reported to Lady Curraghmore, had created considerable alarm, particularly to Lord Curraghmore, who, really anxious as to the safety of his niece, gave way to bursts of anger, which, in his intercourse with his lady he generally had managed to repress, it being no use, he said, getting into a passion with her, a regular waste of powder and shot.

But now, in no measured terms, he accused her as the cause of his niece's disappearance:

"And if the girl is dead, has made away with herself, goaded by the misery of living





with you, Lady Curraghmore, her death may be laid at your door!"

But her ladyship's fears did not point that way, though she thought this freak of the odious girl most troublesome and impertinent; and soon every doubt of her personal safety was put to flight, by Linda's maid having discovered that several articles of apparel were missing, also a carpet-bag, and Miss Linda's trinket-box, so, that she had absconded was clearly the case.

But this did not satisfy Lord Curraghmore; still he continued to inveigh against his stern wife as the cause of all. Inquiries were set on foot, and the intelligence was elicited that a carriage had been seen by some gamekeepers, in the middle of the night, in the road not far from the house, but they knew not to whom it belonged. And it was further traced to A, the nearest post-town; but the innkeeper, from whom it was hired, could only tell that a





gentleman had engaged the vehicle, but it was too dark, and the person was too much covered by his dress for anyone to ascertain who he was; a lady had returned in the carriage, which was driven at once to the railway station, and there the driver saw the gentleman place the lady in one carriage, and take his seat in another. It was too dark and foggy to enable him to ascertain their identity.

"The depraved girl, then, has eloped with some lover," was Lady Curraghmore's indignant remark; and she further added: "I hope that you are now satisfied with this, Lord Curraghmore, and that you will please to leave my presence now, and for ever. It is not sufficient that you must bring under my roof a girl, whose very blood is tainted by being the daughter of an actress and whose disgraceful conduct shows how innately depraved she must be but you presume to overwhelm me with the lowest abuse."





We will not detail the scene that followed, suffice it to say, that Lord and Lady Curraghmore were parted, from that hour, never even to keep up the show of conjugality by living, disunited as they had been for years, under the same roof.

Lord Curraghmore started instantly for England to consult Lord and Lady Sunderland; also his son, as to what steps were to be taken to gain tidings of Linda.

But no Norman was to be found in London, he had not been heard of in Grosvernor Square; but, at last, from Captain Asheton, he discovered that his son had been in London, but no further trace could be discovered of his whereabouts; Lord Curraghmore also ascertained that the Sunderland family were not in town; and, finally, in much anxiety, thought it best to proceed to Belfield, in hopes of hearing there some tidings of one, at least, of the missing ones. It was the distressing news he carried there of Linda's





disappearance, which had brought Lady Sunderland to Carleton Gardens, where, my readers may remember, Mrs. Davis repaired to detail the history of Linda's arrival, and the extraordinary events which followed her appearance.

It was on the morning after Mrs. Davis's most distressing story, and the further catastrophe of Linda's having quitted her house, that the paragraph announcing the marriage appeared in the newspapersfilling all those who were acquainted with the individuals it mentioned with the most unfeigned amazement.



woman





Captain Lawless-engaged to another the wedding-day even fixed-it was incomprehensible! The Sunderlands were much distressed; they really loved Linda, and were deeply interested in her fate. And now what could have become of her? what would be her lot, linked for ever to a man who had proved himself as unprincipled as cold-blooded?





But what could they do?-they were shocked, disgusted! The girl so carefully reared by them to have thus disgraced herself! They were indignant, as well as sorely grieved; though Lady Sunderland's kind heart still urged some steps being taken to discover what had become of the unfortunate girl.

But both Lord Sunderland and his son decided that the matter for the present must rest-Linda was legally married to Captain Lawless, and she must abide by the consequences. Of course, by this time. she must have joined him, wherever he might be.

Unqualified indignation now usurped the place of the warm affection they had hitherto felt towards Linda, who, by such an unheard-of act, had so deceived them as to her character-this deed of duplicity and flagrant disregard of every honourable feeling was, indeed, unpardonable in their eyes, for well Linda had known that the





man with whom she had eloped was on the very eve of marrying another woman.

They could not, however, but sympathise with Lord Curraghmore, who was — and no wonder, poor man!-at his wits' end upon the subject. No tidings could be gained of his son, he had left no intimation of his whereabouts with his regiment or his agents; all they could tell him was that Captain Lawless had drawn large sums of money lately, in short, considerably overdrawn his account-but this was all the information they could afford.

For the first time in his life, this lighthearted son of the Emerald Isle was fairly discomfited; and Lady Sunderland entered kindly into all his feelings, as the poor man sat by her side, and, with tears falling from his eyes, pondered and lamented over the folly and perfidy of his son.





CHAPTER XXIII.



SOME months had elapsed since the events of the dark November we have recorded in the commencement of this story.

It was the time when Paris was at its climax of fashionable dissipation-no breath of which was suffered to pollute the almost conventional atmosphere of the retired mansion in the Faubourg St. Germains, or disturb its quiet studious routine.

All had gone well, apparently, with Linda since we left her domiciled under the kindly stranger's roof; Mrs. Grandison had found no reason to repent the generous confidence she had yielded to her mysterious protégée, in spite of the suspicious circumstances attending her case, and the





utter silence respecting her antecedents the young widow persisted in maintaining from day to day. The pupils assembled-a few well-born, carefully selected girls; and Mrs. Grandison found she had gained a most valuable and efficient instructress, in the accomplished Rosa Lindsey, whose musical talents, especially, were of so firstrate an order.

With zeal and energy, too, she seemed to give herself to her task, as if anxious by present exertion, however arduous, to absorb the memory of some painful past.

Poor Linda, indeed, had greatly changed her whole character was transformed. The childish impetuosity Mrs. Grandison had observed in her bearing during their first acquaintance, soon gradually died away, and she became subdued and tranquil enough to satisfy the most particular maitresse de pension. The first excitement of the secret misfortune under which she laboured on her arrival in France, having





passed away, it was succeeded by a forced and painful resignation to an unnatural and blighted destiny, most touching in one so young and of so passionate and impulsive a temperament. Her pupils loved and admired her; her fellow-teachers treated her with the respect and consideration due to one they intuitively felt was of a sphere and order superior to themselves; Mrs. Grandison's affection and kindness increased every day. It was, indeed, well with Linda, as we have said; and, if so it had been suffered to continue, in time, perhaps, her spirit even might have rebounded from the heavy burden which crushed down its youthfulness, and cut her off from all hope and happiness, save in having found a secure and secret shelter within these gloomy walls. But to this peaceful monotony within La Maison Grandison, there came one day a startling interruption.

One Sunday after morning service, which Mrs. Grandison, her English teachers and





pupils, attended at the nearest English chapel, Mrs. Lindsey had absented herself from the dinner-table when the family assembled round it, at the usual early hour, pleading a bad headache. Dinner was sent to her room; but, on Mrs. Grandison herself ascending to that little chamber adjoining her own, which her protégée had continued to occupy, she found the food still there untasted, and the room empty!

After waiting a short time, in expectation of her appearance, Mrs. Grandison proceeded to inquire for Mrs. Lindsey in the schoolroom, and other apartments of the house; but she had been seen by no one, since the maid had taken up her dinner, when Mrs. Lindsey was seated, the servant said, looking very ill and pale, still in her walking-dress, and had said she feared she could not eat.

Neither was she in the garden, when search was made there, whilst the concierge, happening to be at his dinner, could give





no information as to any one having left the house.

But that she must surely have done so soon became evident. Mrs. Grandison, at first only surprised, became seriously alarmed, the more so when an incident transpired, through one of the pupils, which the young lady had found previously no opportunity to retail- Sunday gossip not being allowed at the dinner table, nor indeed on any other public occasion, in the well-ordered establishment over which the refined and strict-minded Mrs. Grandison reigned.

This young girl reported, that coming out of church, she, with Mrs. Lindsey, being behind the rest of the party, just at the bottom of the stairs leading from the retired pew the school party occupied in the gallery, a man, apparently a gentleman, pushed past them, thrusting a paper into her companion's hand. Mrs. Lindsey had taken it, and looked at its contents, stop





ping short evidently much surprised and startled; but the thick veil she always wore being down, she could not see her



countenance.



Of course the school girl's curiosity and interest were much excited by this adventure; she had whispered an inquiry as to who the person could be, and what he had given her.

“Only a paper, a petition," Linda had faltered, grasping the girl's arm to steady herself, as she looked at the paper.

"Nothing, nothing, my dear Miss Vivian, the man is a madman, I think;" and then she had hurried on after the rest of the party, crushing the paper in her hand, as she went out, and casting it from her on the ground.

No one had observed any difference in Mrs. Lindsey's demeanour afterwards, except that she was silent on her way hoine.

Miss Vivian had mentioned the little





adventure to the young lady who shared her room, whilst taking off their walking dress; she had not the least doubted the truth of the young governess's supposition, that the person who had given her the paper was mad. There was something very wild about his appearance, it appeared to her, from the glimpse she caught of him, though he was decidedly a gentleman, young, and of a distinguished mien. He scarcely seemed to look at Mrs. Lindsey, but thrust the paper almost rudely upon her, and rushed past.

Mrs. Grandison waited in intense anxiety, several hours of the afternoon, in earnest hope and expectation that Linda would return. Her utter ignorance as to the nature of her protégée's previous history, left her imagination open to every possible suspicion and doubt, yet such was the strong confidence in her innocence and virtue with which the poor girl had inspired her kind friend, that it was fear for





Linda's safety, rather than any idea of treachery or evil, with which this mysterious disappearance, joined with the adventure at the chapel door, inspired her. But she waited in vain; and then as evening advanced, having sent her pupils as usual with the other English governess, a staid elderly lady, to the evening service, she ordered a fiacre, and with the French teacher, was about to sally forth to the Bureau de Police, there to claim the aid for such emergencies so well provided in the metropolis of France; when Mrs. Lindsey appeared.





CHAPTER XXIV.



Ir had been, indeed, as if a thunder-bolt had fallen at Linda's feet, the sudden apparition of Norman Lawless before her at the entrance to the chapel. How she comprehended the contents of the paper he thrust into her hands, she could not imagine afterwards, such was the confusion of mind, and the horrible agitation, the incident occasioned her. But in that brief hurried glance, she had taken in the meaning of those strange wildly-written words, and remembered them distinctly.

"You cannot any longer escape me, Linda. I have seen you. Come to me at the Hôtel de Rue St. Honoré: it is a case of life or death.



"N. L."





She comprehended more too. She had spoken her real conviction to the young lady by her side, when she said, "He is a a madman." In the wild glare of the eye, which had flashed so instantaneously upon her fearfully, in the altered ghastly countenance, she had clearly read insanity.

Yes, Norman was surely mad, and she must go to him, save him, a second time, perhaps from some still more desperate fate, whatever happened. She was his wife, and must see to his safety; sacrifice herself again, run any risk, if it were necessary. She did not pause to calculate the danger; there had been something very desperate in the look he cast upon her; but that did not signify-he bade her come now, as he had once desired her to leave him, and for better or for worse, their fates were united.

She was quite unconscious of anything but this one intent during her return home, and when there was only bent on awaiting the favourable moment for leaving the





She



house again without observation. had presence of mind to send her excuses to Mrs. Grandison, with tolerable composure; and to wait for the servant's arrival upstairs with the inevitable dinner; then she stealthily slipped downstairs, out of the house which had so kindly sheltered her; was soon in the open streets, and entering a fiacre, gave orders that she should be driven to the hotel appointed.

She felt no excitement of any sort, either of fear, or hope, or love, or great anxiety, only a dull, drear sense of doing her duty, or fulfilling some new part of her strange destiny.

When she stopped at the hotel, and inquired directly for Captain Lawless, the concierge who came forward stared at her, and told her he knew of no such person. "Are you quite sure?" Linda demanded earnestly, as one or two of the garçons came forward to confirm the former statement, and both protested that there was no





such English gentleman staying in the house.

Linda paused to consider-then persisted,

"But the gentleman may not have given his name; he gave me his direction, and appointed me to visit him; he is pale, with light eyes and hair," and in her eager solicitude, she otherwise described his personal appearance.

The men, disposed at first to treat her application with careless insouciance, were irresistibly impressed by this earnest simplicity, combined with a certain innocent dignity of look and manner which defied suspicion. They allowed at last that there was such a gentleman in the house at that moment, answering to her description; he had been there, indeed, a week, but they did not know his name; and he did not appear exactly in a state of mind to receive lady visitors.

The maître-d'hôtel had been considering





whether it would not be right to send for medical assistance. Should they tell him she was there? Would the lady send up her name?

"No," Linda answered after a moment's thought; "I will go to him at once. I am his near relation," she added hesitatingly, she had almost said his wife, but the widow's cap she still retained, prevented her. "I know he is ill, in mind. I have come to see what can be done for him."

The steps were let down, and she descended. The garçons named numero 32 au troisième, for the hotel had been quite full on the gentleman's arrival, and Linda, beginning to ascend the stairs, was left to find her way to the room accordingly.

She might have had some difficulty if a frotteur she met busily employed at his vocation had not directed her; for a small flight of steps led up to the apartment Lawless occupied-two small rooms, leading one out of the other, being the only ones at liberty when he first arrived.





The hotel was a very respectable one, though it was quite by accident he had been driven there, and was not one of those most generally resorted to by the élite.

When Linda stood at length at the right door, she paused a moment ere she knocked to take breath and listen. What she heard was not at all calculated to allay her misgiving, the footsteps of a man moving quickly about the room, were audible; joined to the opening and shutting of drawers; and other sounds symptomatic of purposeless, restless disturbance.

It was a relief, perhaps, to her mind to know that the frotteur to whom she had addressed herself, was watching her still with natural curiosity and astonishment; and would probably remain in this vicinity. She knocked at last; the door was immediately thrown open, and Norman Lawless, pale, haggard, with bloodshot eyes, confronted her.

"Norman, I am come," she faltered.





"Thank you, Linda," he answered in a tone which almost reassured her, it was only very much as he had spoken at Lough Rea, the night before their elopement. Then he took hold of her wrist and drew her into the apartment, locking the door behind her.

Instinctively she went and sat down by an open window; it looked down upon a large court, into which the salle à manger opened; also a small salle de compagnie, in which some one was playing a pianoforte. With the keen-sighted suspicion of a disordered mind, Lawless had evidently divined her choice of this position; closing the window, and fastening the bolt, he murmured,

"That cursed piano, it distracts me; let us shut it out. I have a great deal to say to you, Linda, we must have no disturbance to our conversation, my dear little cousin."

"What can I do for you, Norman ?"





Linda inquired soothingly, determined to show no sign of fear, though her heart sank inwardly with terror. "You know I was

always ready to help you."

"Yes, I knew you would not fail me. I have been looking for you everywhere; I thought they had shut you up; it was a lucky chance that I caught sight of you going into the chapel. Though you had disguised yourself in this ridiculous manner, I should have known your walk and figure amongst a thousand, a pretty little figure, though not like hers," he added, and his features, which had calmed before, now worked convulsively.

"I have been living at a school, with a very kind lady," Linda said, anxious to divert his mind from this dangerous allusion. "I am very happy there."

But he did not listen to her, only continued, "Not like hers, the beautiful fiend, whom we both hate so cordially; do not we, Linda ?"





"No, we must not hate her," Linda answered gently, but firmly; "we must pity and pray for her that she may be made better, though perhaps we cannot love her."





"Love her, I should think not," he exclaimed with a fearful laugh; "we must try and rid the world of her before she does more mischief, stings more men's souls."

"Where is she?" Linda asked, seeing that to reason was useless, and thinking it better to humour him.

"With the demon she has married," he answered. "I read their names in Italy upon every hotel-book, but could not catch them. They are in England now,—I read it in Galignani;-you and I will go there together. Fine tricks they will play in London, if they are left unpunished."

"Shall we go now ?" Linda said almost too eagerly, for his eye immediately betrayed suspicion.





"Wait a minute," he said, "we must not go unarmed: do you know how to use a pistol? If not, shall have to teach you. Look here!"

He walked hastily into the adjoining sleeping-apartment, the one they occupied was fitted up with couch and mirror, and other drawing-room adornments.

Linda looked at the window, a man was in the court. She made a sign to him, then springing to the door, unbolted it. But the movement, slight as was its sound, had attracted the attention of Lawless, who reappeared holding a pistol in each hand; one of which—at the same time exclaiming, "Little traitress, little traitress!" - he pointed towards Linda, who sinking on her knees shrieked forth, "O Norman, do not kill me!"

But her terror on that account was unfounded; the pistols happily were not loaded.

The frotteur, however, who had heard the cry, knocked at the door and asked if





had



they had called him. The garçon, too, flown upstairs, and both appearing on the threshold, Lawless directed his ineffectual aim at both their heads, then laughing loud, called them a pack of cowards; that his cousin and he were only practising shooting.

They saw, however, the state of the case at once. Linda now stood pale and firm again; and by an expressive look, signalised her desire that they would seek medical assistance-but also that she had in the interval no further fear of being left alone with the poor patient. It was a terrible half-hour that she thus passed, though Lawless was comparatively calm and rational, suspecting probably that he was not left entirely unwatched or unguarded.

He, however, spoke incoherently, and wildly on the subject of his past wrongs; and the revenge which with Linda's assistance he meditated. But he was gentle, almost tender in his expressions to his little cousin, as he called her, who had been





always so eager to help to extricate him from the "beautiful fiend;" and had so truly loved him. As to the celebration of any marriage between them ever having taken place, that appeared entirely obliterated from his memory. He seemed to look upon her in some way as a fellow victim, but to have no clear conception of anything concerning her real circumstances towards him.

At last footsteps were heard approaching. The maître-d'hôtel who had been absent on Linda's first arrival, entered to say a gentleman wished to speak with Captain Lawless-and the doctor from a private asylum entered.

With professional ingenuity he contrived to introduce himself, and enter into conversation with the maniac,-after a few sentences interchanged, with a glance at Linda, requesting he would allow him the favour of a private interview, having a message concerning some rather important business he had received for him from England.





The doctor's assistant stood outside, one who had been directed to communicate with the lady, and receive her instructions, and all necessary information concerning the patient. The name and parentage of the deranged man, and the unhappy events which had doubtless led to this his present mental condition, were detailed by Linda. She was almost certain that no hereditary disease was in the family. As to the question, what relationship existed between herself and Captain Lawless, she named herself as only his cousin - for, all other considerations set aside, she began to doubt in her own mind whether an act committed under a state of madness, such as had probably commenced at the time of their marriage, could hold good in a legal sense. She then stated her immediate intention of writing to Lord Curraghmore; till his arrival, or directions could be obtained, she entreated that if possible Captain Lawless might remain at the hotel under proper custody, rather than be re





moved to the asylum. This, however, on further consultation with his principal, which the assistant managed to obtain before their departure, was not deemed advisable; and, with the miserable satisfaction that the comfort and safety of the unfortunate young man could thus be more surely relied upon, Linda, with anguished feelings, was informed that his conveyance from the hotel had been quietly and securely managed.

She remained there to write her letter to her uncle-briefly detailing everything that had happened to her since she had last beheld him; her strange marriage, and immediate separation from his son; the circumstances under which she had dwelt since then, until that day; concluding more fully with the distressful history of her meeting with Lawless, his unhappy condition of mind, and the medical custody under which it had been necessary to place him, entreating her uncle to lose no time





in coming to Paris, and sharing her sorrowful responsibility.

She ended by imploring his forgiveness for the rash step she had been led to take, against her own reason, from her love and pity for Norman; gave Lord Curraghmore her direction at Mrs. Grandison's, declaring her readiness, if so permitted, to devote herself to Norman as soon as his malady allowed of such attendance-but only as the cousin he now alone remembered her, the sister as in former days he had so affectionately regarded her, and as such in his natural state of mind he would still, she was certain, wish her to be.

Then, sending the letter to the post, and giving the hotel people guarantee that the debt Mr. Lawless had incurred there would be satisfied, a fiacre was ordered, and she was driven back, in a state of much nervous exhaustion, to the Faubourg St. Germain, and reappeared like a pale ghost before Mrs. Grandison's anxious eyes.





CHAPTER XXV.



MRS. GRANDISON's great anxiety thus appeased, she received her young friend rather sternly.

"This is strange conduct, Mrs. Lindsey," she began. "Your unaccountable absence from my house has naturally caused me much uneasiness, and created an excitement amongst the young ladies very disturbing and unsettling to their minds, unsuitable especially, too, on a Sunday."

Linda had sunk down at once upon her knees by Mrs. Grandison's side, and it was to give her time, perhaps, to recover herself that the good lady spoke thus, for she saw well, by the expression on Linda's face as she entered, that she had gone through some terrible excitement during her absence, and that the time for some startling disclosure had arrived.





"Pray rise, and compose yourself, Mrs. Lindsey," she again said, more kindly, but still coldly. "I am quite prepared for some painful, though, I trust, satisfactory explanation. It would have been better, perhaps, had you confided to me your history before (for your own comfort, I I do not speak with any reference to my own feelings). You shall have a glass of wine, for you look very faintnay, if you prefer it, you can now go to bed, and wait till to-morrow."



mean;



"No, no," Linda murmured, rising almost immediately with dignity. "You shall know all, my kind friend, which I have thought it right, unwisely perhaps, to conceal from you-anxious to hide myself from the world, and all my former relations. You will soon be made sure of the truth of my statements, for I have written to my uncle, Lord Curraghmore he will be soon in Paris. My real name is Rosalinda Lawless, both by birth and marriage.





Then to the astonished and much interested Mrs. Grandison, Linda detailed her whole history; at the close of which her listener silently embraced the poor girl, much affected.

"I compassionate you sincerely," she then said; "you sacrificed yourself indeed rashly and blindly, and have been made the victim of the wickedness of others; but if weak and imprudent in your conduct, you have no guilt to reproach yourself with, and as God has hitherto sheltered you from the consequences of your error, may He continue to preserve you, and in the end cause all this misery to work for good. Eversfield! is it possible that the wretched cause of so much evil, is the sister of that dear good girl, once with me for a few months, but who was recalled home, much to my regret, at the end of that time, owing to the illness of her mother, and other family troubles? Had she ever a sister Car?"

"Yes, that is her," Linda interrupted, "the wretched cause, as you say, of so much





misery. What has become of her now, I know not, nor whether to believe the dreadful things my poor cousin in his ravings let fall about her."

"Yes, I was going to tell you, I remember being shocked and astonished to see but a day or two after our arrival in Paris last November, the marriage of this very sister (whom I had heard my late pupil Geraldine sometimes sorrowfully allude to), announced in the 'Times,' to the Earl of Glendinnon, the death of whose former lady I had particularly remarked in the of the preceding morning.'



paper



Poor Linda closed her eyes faintly for a moment; she saw plainly all now, what she had only suspected before; how Norman had been goaded to madness; how she had been indeed sacrificed, to wreak another's vengeance.

She had immolated herself, and had not saved Norman from a terrible fate. But she did not even now regret that sacrifice, she thought not of herself, she loved Norman





with too pure and selfish a love, she had not shrunk from him even in his madness, she would be faithful to him unto death.

Linda had gone to bed much exhausted by the time the young ladies returned; Mrs. Grandison merely telling them that Mrs. Lindsey had come back soon after they left the house, having explained her absence in a painful but satisfactory manner, — that she had been in short to visit an afflicted relative whose unhappy circumstances she had shrunk from revealing.

The next day Mrs. Grandison herself accompanied Linda to the asylum to inquire after the unhappy Norman.

The physician's report was satisfactory. Perfect quiet and salutary restraint had already worked a beneficial effect upon the patient, he was more calm and rational.

By the time Lord Curraghmore arrived the doctor hoped the worst crisis would have passed, and the sight of so near a relative need not be denied him.





CHAPTER XXVI.



THE sight of Linda's handwriting had been hailed by poor Lord Curraghmore with joy. Cut off from his own family, dependent on the Sunderlands for sympathy, his anxiety on his son's account began to tell upon his spirit sadly.

Linda's treachery began to weigh far less in the balance than the loss of her society, and the mutual desertion of both his son and his little favourite; so when the Paris letter was put into his hands, his heart revived.

They were coming back to him at last.

Linda no doubt had written to beg his pardon, and the warm-hearted man had forgiven her before he broke the seal.

What he read plunged him again into wretchedness as well as surprise.





Linda not with her husband all this time his boy Norman mad, in confinement. It was distracting, heart-rending. He would have him home at once, mad or not; he should not be out of his own care.

Fortunately he was in London when he received the letter; the Sunderlands, too, were there, and Lord Sinclair, who determined to accompany the afflicted father to Paris: Lady Elizabeth had died two months before.

Lady Sunderland's bereaved heart once more opened with indulgent kindness towards the poor victim of a too impulsive, but yet generous and self-sacrificing nature; she was filled with compassion for the fate of one she loved so well, and writing an affectionate and forgiving letter, offered her once more a home beneath her roof.

The meeting between Linda and her uncle was deeply affecting; Lord Curraghmore had seen his son, who had not recognised him, only the sight of his father





had struck some chord of association in Norman's mind, and he had asked for Linda, his little cousin; and the father had come, therefore, by the doctor's permission, to take Linda to see his son.

The experiment was satisfactory, her presence, instead of exciting, seemed to soothe and gratify the patient, and she was suffered to remain, by her earnest entreaty, and occasionally to share the service of the regular attendants.

The case was evidently not considered one of deep-seated madness, but the crisis of a terrible course of excitement, which had seriously, but it was to be trusted not fatally, affected the brain.

A long course of soothing treatment and judicious restraint, might lead to his perfect



restoration.



Some months longer, therefore, the invalid remained in Paris, consciousness gradually dawning on his mind, though the memory of the past was still partially





obscured, especially that part of it immediately preceding his madness.

It seemed that he had been travelling about, in a purposeless manner on the Continent, for the few months preceding his arrival in Paris and his meeting with Linda, with a vague idea of inflicting some terrible revenge on the Glendinnons, the event of whose elopement and marriage soon after his own mad marriage with his cousin, had probably precipitated the insanity, under the latent influence of which, he had acted ever since the morning of her arrival in London, and the discovery of Car's perfidious breaking of her vow.

This insanity, indeed, had so far been kept under restraint, as in strangers' eyes, to amount only to a high state of eccentricity; not until this late arrival in Paris had it broken bounds and showed itself so dangerous to himself and others as in his interview with Linda.

From the time of his partial recovery,





the presence and attendance of his "little cousin," as he still continued to call her, appeared to offer him relief and gratification.

"How comes it, Linda," he said one day in the early stage of his amendment, “that you and my father have got clear of the old lady so capitally; we three get on famously together, make a wonderfully peaceful trio, though we all seem to be turned upside down somehow? The old Lord's become tame as a mouse; and you, Linda, pale and demure as a nun, or a sœur de charité. As for myself, I feel as if I had been underground for ages, and just dug up again."

"You have been ill, Norman, but, you are better now. Your father and I will become livelier soon; of course we have been anxious." He looked at her earnestly.

"But when I am well, you are not to leave me, Linda. I am not going to be turned loose on the world again, amongst





the "beautiful fiends," to get into mischief (and a troubled cloud of remembrance seemed dawning on his pallid features).

It was all the allusion he ever made to the past, either at this time, or in the future. A month after the doctors pronounced Lawless fit to travel to his own country, in the company of his father and his little



cousin.



They went to London, and from thence to the family seat in Ireland.





CHAPTER XXVII.



FIVE years have passed, and all is changed; everything approaching to gloom has vanished from the scene; and in the countenances of the dramatis persona who now appear, in this concluding act of our story, wholesome happiness is the striking characteristic.

Yes, we say wholesome household happiness; not that feverish glow of excitement the pleasures of the great world create in the expression of those countenances whose joys are derived from its vitiated sources:



"All the joys of sense



Lie in three words, Health, Peace, and Temperance.

But health consists with temperance alone;

And peace-O virtue! peace is all thy own."



Thus we may describe the present condition of the Lawless trio, the father, son





and Linda, transformed, indeed, since we last saw them -peace the characteristic of the expression of their countenances.

It is at Castle Lawless that we again find Linda, her pretty little figure improved by having grown more full and womanly, but her face looking as young, and far handsomer, than when we last saw the pale little girl; and we noticed in her expression a serenity not before to be seen. in that of the impulsive Linda of old.

If seems as if something more than usually important was going on at Castle Lawless this day, for preparations are making on a grand scale for a rural festival; long tables are being laid out for a dinner to be given to the retainers and tenantry of the Castle; and Linda, leaning upon Lord Curraghmore's arm, is walking here and there, watching with interest the preparations, making suggestions and giving orders, as to the proper arrangement of every department of the banquet.

Soon she is joined by another actress in





the day's concern-one whom we have not seen before; a little girl seemingly about three years old; a little fairy with dark hair and eyes, who flies towards them, taking shelter in her grandfather's arms from the attendant who pursues her, for the holiday garb had not yet been put on, and the time for her appearance had not properly arrived.

The fact is, that this is the christening feast of the much desired heir of the house of Curraghmore; and Elizabeth, the little daughter and only child for three long years, is now deposed by her more important brother.

Yes, Linda has been a very happy wife; and although for the first tried years of her married life she had to encounter much anxiety, owing to the uncertain state of her husband's nervous condition, all that had happily passed away, and Norman was an altered man, not only in bodily health, but in mental strength and feeling.

He loved his little wife sincerely, and





could now look back with horror, with regret, to the days of his enthralment.

They had a nominal home in London, but at Castle Lawless the family spent the most part of the year, Norman taking an absorbing interest in restoring and beautifying the splendid old place, at which Lord Curraghmore almost entirely resided. He, too, was much changed: removed from the atmosphere of his wife's presence, he seemed to lay aside amusements, which before, for lack of domestic happiness, constituted the only solace he enjoyed. Purer and simpler pleasures now filled up his time; he entered into all his son's views with regard to the place; and now, when the beholder gazes at the beautiful mansion, its surrounding gardens, parterres, and pleasure-grounds, the rich, well-ordered farms and cultivated glades, it is a marvel to think that this is the place a few years back thought to be irretrievably gone to rack and ruin. In Ireland, such another perfect model of a nobleman's estate could





scarcely be found; all around in keeping, as far as is possible, in a country not famed for its love of neatness and regularity.

But the old tenantry loved the old lord (as they called him), and the young one with the jewel of a wife, who was so kind to every one.

And all about the estate seemed bettered and purified by the softening power of affection and example. Thus years passed by in peace and happiness, no wish ungratified, save the non-arrival of an heir. And now he had come. And it was Linda's delight, this day, to congregate around her all those she so dearly loved, to witness the christening of the important child: thé beloved Sutherland family; her generous, confiding friend, Mrs. Grandison, now accompanied by her son so long absent in India.

"Ah, Linda, my darling!" Lord Curraghmore exclaimed; "I should be a great deal too happy to-day were it not for this freak of yours. Oh, why did you insist upon this reconciliation! and that





my Lady Curraghmore should come here to-day; indeed, I scarcely think I can stand it; I must really run away and hide myself."

"Oh, no, dear father, I shall hold you fast, and I know you will behave well and kindly!"







Oh, then, if it is only for the little while you have promised, I will try! But let nobody ask me to live with her again entirely, we can just visit occasionally, that will be quite enough for me; and by my troth, girl, I feel at this moment all of a tremble, at the idea of again encountering the woman."

"Oh, father, remember how unhappy she has been; I hear she is quite an altered woman; how differently she writes!"

"Ah, and to be sure, so she does, poor creature, and no wonder. It is sorrowful to lose a child; and to my lady, still worse to have a daughter who has wounded her pride. She felt that marriage of Margaret's, I'll be bound to say, far more than poor Isabella's death; but, either way, it has taken a great





deal out of her, seemingly, or she'd have never consented to come here

and by my troth, Linda, darling, here she is!" And Lord Curraghmore's ruddy face actually turned pale.

"Upon my conscience, I shall never be able to encounter the dowager!" and he really struggled to free himself from Linda, who, however, clung resolutely to him, and dragged him on towards the portico, under which a travelling carriage had just drawn up, in which was also Norman, who had escorted his mother.

The next moment Lord Curraghmore was kindly and gently assisting his son, who sprang from the carriage, to almost lift out an attenuated, infirm-looking old woman, whom Linda could scarcely recognise as the erect and strong-framed, formidable Lady of Lough Rea, and whom her son was so affectionately welcoming to Lawless Castle; which welcome was more vociferously, though very kindly, echoed by Lord Curraghmore.





Lady Curraghmore had, indeed, been brought low, and was now bent to the earth by sorrow, and no wonder. Her daughter, Mrs. Craigie, had died in her confinement. Margaret, the elder sister, had eloped with a young man, a clerk in the office of the family solicitor, who had been sent to Lough Rea upon some business, and had been obliged to remain there some weeks. He was a handsome young man, and, having an eye to the main chance and Miss Lawless's fortune (settled absolutely upon herself on her marriage), soon came to the determination of raising himself through her means.

For once in her life Lady Curraghmore was completely hoodwinked, and saw nothing that was going on, until a letter was

put into her hands one morning, found in her daughter's room, saying the usual words, which we believe are generally used upon such occasions, that when her ladyship should receive it, the writer would be "Her affectionate daughter, MARGARET Dawson."





At the same time a letter was placed in the frantic mother's hands, requesting her to repair to Craigie, her daughter having given birth to a dead child, and herself sinking rapidly. Lady Curraghmore arrived only to receive the last breath of a daughter who, until this final parting, she knew not that she loved so well. Lady Curraghmore's frigid heart had really felt acutely the desertion of her husband and son, although she had maintained till now her usual cold, stern demeanour. Inwardly she had long chafed, her efforts to keep up the appearance of indifference becoming more and more impossible.

Now the ice-bound barrier gave way, the desolate woman sunk at once; husband, son, and daughter-all gone-for Margaret was worse than dead to her henceforth.

A terrible fit of illness was the consequence; but her cry throughout was that no mention of her state was to be made





to her husband and son. She struggled through it, but was left a shattered wreck: her nerves all shaken, her health for ever departed.

It was during Linda's convalescence, that at last the family at Lough Rea received from some mutual friend a hint of Lady Curraghmore's wretched condition; and Norman required very little entreaty from his wife to set off immediately to his mother; and Lord Curraghmore's really kind heart felt sorry for the miserable woman, and with some faint attempts at hesitation and only a few wry faces, consented that she should be invited to visit them at Lawless Castle.

"She shall be no trouble to you, dear father, or to any one. Mrs. Lewes will nurse and take care of her. She is so ill and suffering, that it will be a comfort to us all to be kind to her."

Mrs. Lewes. Yes, Linda's first best friend in trouble; that friend who, by God's mercy, was the first who spoke





words to her which changed her heart, her every feeling,-who made her acquainted not only with. herself, but with the things belonging to her peace; that good, kind woman who had befriended her when she was a poor desolate wanderer on the verge perhaps of ruin.

Immediately when Linda (accompanied by her husband and Lord Curraghmore) went to London, on Norman's convalescence, she sought out this excellent woman, and when the family went to Ireland every arrangement had been made: the stock of her little shop was disposed of, and Mrs. Lewes, accompanying them to Castle Lawless, there became the right hand of every individual of the family, acting as housekeeper and superintendent of the household, and in her own apartments visited by Linda, Norman, and Lord Curraghmore as a most valued friend.

Georgy was sent to a good school, and spent his holidays with his mother at Lawless Castle, as great a favourite with





Linda as in those days when he - the little pale boy-so kindly befriended her in the small shop in Upper Oxford Street. Lady Curraghmore revived in a measure in the atmosphere of kindness in which she now existed; but her health was never restored. She, however, was not again separated from her family; confined entirely to her own suite of apartments, she lived a few years longer, her heart softening and changing day by day. And with good Mrs. Lewes, as well as her children, to be kind to her, her latter days were full of peace and hope. So changed indeed was her

nature, that she even consented to see Mr. and Mrs. Dawson, and accord to her daughter her perfect forgiveness.

And leaving this reunited family as happy as it is possible for human beings to be in a world of constant change and trouble, we must take our final leave of them, and say a few words about poor Car, before we finally let down the curtain. A far less cheerful theme it will be!





CHAPTER XXVIII.



FIVE years have also passed over the head of Lady Glendinnon, the Car Eversfield of other days.

Yes, she is a countess now, with rank and station, splendid mansions and equipages, a princely establishment, and carte blanche to spend what she pleases on herself; but have all these rich adjuncts to the enjoyments of life made her happy?

The expression of her face is also completely altered; but how different is the change to that which we noted on the countenances of those whom we depicted in the last chapter; for when I gaze down upon her from my out-of-the-way pew in the gallery of Chapel, she little imagining what prying eyes are upon her,





I cannot help sighing whilst thinking how wretched she looks! Car Eversfield's beauty always consisted more in her brilliant colouring, the liveliness of her expression, the joyous mirth sparkling in her fine eyes, and the rounded contour of her youthful figure, than in any classic style of loveliness.

I must confess that often whilst in church, my thoughts are carried irresistibly away from the one absorbing theme which ought wholly to engross my mind within those sacred walls, and I find my eyes fixing themselves with speculating earnestness upon the countenance of the once blooming, thoughtlessly happy girl, whom, having known from her childhood, I cannot help still regarding with sorrowful interest.

Car's face is now quite colourless and thin, even haggard; but her countenance is still restless (for I observe her continually looking around her, as if in expectation of seeing something or somebody. Perhaps





we know not—of meeting some old longedfor familiar face), and her eyes have a fixed, dull look, very different from the vivacious, joyous, sparkling expression of former times.

Her dress is handsome; it seems composed of rich materials, left to the choice of the mantua maker, and put on, without interference on her part, by a lady's maid. Not like that of Car Eversfield, always studying for effect, and adjusted with a certain jaunty air, adding to the piquancy of her appearance; her whole tournure the complete characteristic of what she really was,—a beautiful flirt, and a very fast young lady.

Oh, that any British maiden should unblushingly, nay, and without the slightest feeling of shame, even glory in such a title!

But so it is, in the year 1861.

At least so we hear, and read, and occasionally see; but this our present story was commenced a year or two ago, before





the new race of "fast young ladies" had appeared upon the London boards.

We in our ignorance know nothing of the pretty horsebreakers and their novel proceedings, we only talk of what we have heard, and have with our eyes beheld; and it is our present province to tell of an unfortunate girl who some few years ago gloried in the name of "fast," and whose fast ways are here with truth recorded.

But we must revert for a moment to the period when Car Eversfield, urged and prompted by her baneful confidante and adviser, the French woman, Louise, left her aunt's house, and threw herself upon the protection of Lord Glendinnon. We must, however, do him the justice to state that he had in no way encouraged or contemplated such a finale to his unprincipled and merely pour passer le temps flirtation; indeed at that moment he had "other fish to fry," and it was rather a shock to his Lordship's nerves, when on returning to his house at a





late hour the night of Car's elopement from South Street, he was informed by the porter a lady was awaiting him in the library; and on his entering that apartment was met no longer by the vivacious Car, but by a weeping, distracted Niobe, who, throwing herself on her knees, implored him to befriend, to protect her. She looked most attractive even then, transformed as she was, with her dark hair streaming in disorder around her pale face, and tears falling from those lustrous eyes; the words of ardent love which the wretched girl, noting her before passionate adorer's surprised and rather disapproving expression, now poured forth, calling to mind how that love had been her ruin, and if he now cast her off, her only alternative must be utter destruction. We will not describe this scene.

It is doubly repellent to think of such depravity of mind in a girl nurtured in an atmosphere of purity—the child of parents sans reproche. We will only add that

Lord Glendinnon was not a man strong





enough to resist the advances, the words of admiring love and passion issuing from the rosy lips of a beautiful woman; and one, moreover, whom he greatly admired. And yet even he, with all his bold daring, shrank with something like dismay when he thought of the father of this tempting Circe -that man, so excellent, so honourable, even respected by the vicious profligate who was about to destroy his happiness for ever. We already know the sequel, and how, for the sake of that father, Lord Glendinnon made the only reparation in his power, by marrying the fallen girl, the very moment that his wife's death rendered the act feasible.

Car's future life is soon told. She was now Lord Glendinnon's wife; and, with that title, soon, ah, how soon! she whose love was still at its very height, found how short-lived was her power over the blasé affections of him for whom she had sacrificed her every hope in this world. She





had indeed been the toy of a moment, cast off as valueless before she had half awakened from her dream of bliss.

Car had only possessed, in Lord Glendinnon's eyes, the charm of freshness and youth; and even while he regarded her as unattainable, his vanity had been flattered by her undisguised admiration of himself.

She had no qualifications of mind, no tact nor cleverness, to attach him to her, or to render endurable the chains of matrimony. She was bound to him for life most certainly. His wife now, she might perhaps become the mother of his heir — and an heir would without doubt be desirable, as he hated his present probable successor. But soon he deemed Car too shallow a fool to claim much of his attention.

"Fool as she is, however," he thought, "she is unfortunately my wife; and a slippery hand she has always been; so we must put a curb upon her at once, and a pretty severe one, too, or she will soon be at her old pranks again-for, though she





is a fool, like most fools, she is not deficient



in cunning."



And Car soon found her wings effectually clipped.

Lord Glendinnon's first

act was to dismiss Mademoiselle Louise, and himself to engage an elderly Abigail of unimpeachable reputation a stern, unbending-looking woman— to wait upon his lady, who soon began to learn that she had no alternative-her sole chance of peace, or of a word or look approaching to kindness but absolute submission and obedience to her husband's iron rule.





The worst of men are often the most exacting as to the conduct of their female belongings, most particularly of their wives.

Again, his Lordship's peculiar feeling of respect towards her father, operated so far in Car's favour as to gain for her every demonstration of at least outward consideration. Everything that money could procure was at her command; but did this, in the slightest degree, help to fill up the void





of a lonely existence, a lonely heart?-she, the daughter of a large, united, happy family.

All intercourse with her home was entirely at an end, and Lord Glendinnon's family were equally estranged - they had ever looked upon him with marked disapprobation, and this last act had strengthened their alienation from a relative whose career had ever been systematically degenerate.

And at home the unfortunate girl's name was blotted out from amongst them.

Could it be forgotten that it was her conduct which had expedited the death of the mother, the wife?—so precious to them all.

The broken-hearted father, trembling at the horrible idea that the same blood as the recreant Car's flowed equally in the veins. of his other daughters, seemed haunted by a morbid terror lest any of his now seemingly innocent girls might turn out second editions of their wretched sister.

Every heart sympathised in the deep





grief and humiliation of this man, who stood so high in the estimation of all who knew him, from his sovereign to the humblest individual. Something must be done to rouse him from his present state of despondency.

An appointment of the highest grade in India at this moment fell vacant, and was immediately offered to him, but in the first instance resolutely refused.

It was, however, his gentle daughter Geraldine who at length persuaded him to retract his determination, and avail himself of the high consideration so graciously shown towards him.

"Dearest father," she urged, "go to India; you require change of scene, and engrossing occupation."

"Would you have me leave all my motherless children, Geraldine?" he exclaimed, in angry surprise.

"Yes; it is for their sakes that I would implore you to go," Geraldine answered firmly. "The appointment is only for five





years; and, dear father, you may leave your children safely with me and Aunt Jane, who has offered to live with us, and would add to our comfort and respectability by her presence. Yes, I will act a mother's part by all your children, darling father; and, though I am young, you know you can, and always have, trusted me. You ought not, in justice to your large family, to refuse such a post of emolument, as well as of distinction; and Albert wishes so much to accompany you remember how beneficial it will be for him. Yes, father, you must go!"

And finally the General went, and Miss Eversfield, who truly loved her brother, and her niece Geraldine, thought little of the sacrifice of giving up her snug little house in South Street, and taking up her abode at Everslee; but she was amply rewarded by the pleasure she enjoyed in the society of her nieces and nephews, and in admiring the praiseworthy conduct of the young mistress of the house, Geral





dine, who did, indeed, prove herself a mother to the large family committed to her charge.

The younger Eversfields were all well disposed, quiet girls, not one partaking of the nature of the poor black sheep, Car. They were all gentle and good; and none of them, though ladylike and pleasant to look upon, the least approaching to beauties; certainly not possessing the flashing loveliness of their elder sister.

Some of the boys, however, reminded the aunt and Geraldine of one who, with all her misdeeds, could not but be remembered with the sharpest pangs at their tender hearts ; and often has a flashing eye, a rosy lip, a saucy ringing laugh, from one of the little boys, caused Mrs. Nelson, the nurse, to hurry from the room to hide sobs. and tears which would burst forth at the thoughts of another nursling, still so fondly loved, now worse than dead to them all.



*





And now a few words more about Car,

and our story is told. Yes, as we view her, from our retired pew, we mark the ravages circumstances have wrought upon a face that once looked as if sorrow and sickness never could rest upon it.

But she is a neglected, uncared-for wife, and alien from her old home and its associations, and from all her old dear ties. She wears the trappings of prosperity, and envies the very beggars in the street for their independence and freedom from restraint. Her health, once so perfect, is impaired; she never recovered from a fearful illness after the birth of a dead son.

From that time her beauty seemed gone, at least those adjuncts to its brilliancy, her fine complexion, the roundness of contour, and the bright, sparkling glance; now in the dull though agitated glance of her eyes, we can trace an agonizing expression, as if fain would she catch one single look of some longed-for object; yes, of something or somebody for which she panted;





as the rich man in torment longed for the drop of water to cool his burning tongue.

Car was indeed forlorn; she had not a friend to whom she could speak, and pour forth her griefs. Time may work changes, but her disgraceful story, even after years had elapsed, was still fresh in every one's



memory.



It was one of too flagrant a nature to be soon forgotten even in these days, when certainly we often see vice walking triumphant and unabashed in society.

But this case could not be easily forgotten in the highest quarters; there was a stern reprobation of Lord Glendinnon and his wife, which set its seal on any truce that might have been made by the great world with the offenders.

All this was most chafing to the proud spirit of Lord Glendinnon, and more and more alienated him from the partner of his sin and folly; and as those he would have desired as associates for his wife kept pertinaciously aloof, and the few less scrupulous






and less desirable in all ways, who would have gladly availed themselves of the advantages of a good house, luxurious table, and all the accessories of rank and a princely fortune, gained no admission within the stately walls of Lord Glendinnon's mansions -so Car was wholly companionless. But we must now leave her to her destiny; trusting that there may still come a time when she may have peace; and that even at evening time there may be light.



Yes



"Light at the evening time;

Oh, blessed hope! when on the waters dark

Faith's straining eye can scarce discern the ark,

And the poor dove, in weary flight around,

No olive branch has found."





THE END.